5

http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson
100
13 Richard Wyatt
20 Barkley I. Hendricks
16 Mickalene Thomas
10 Nira Pereg
11 Sandra Rowe
14 Isa Melsheimer
10 Kim Abeles
12 Diana Thater
14 Astrid Preston
14 Mitchell Syrop
17 Enigma Variations
16 Lita Albuquerque
11 Park Studio
12 Brody Condon
20 Barkley I. Hendricks
13 Beatrice Wood
13 Loren Holland
14 Megan Williams
10 Elias Sime
12 Linda Nishio
44 Richard Carter and Margaret Pezalla-Granlund
14 Arnold Mesches
11 Bruce Busby
13 Jill Bonovitz
10 Mary Kelly
17 Allen Ruppersberg
22 Tell Me Something Good
17 David Wojnarowicz
46 Bruce and Norman Yonemoto with John Baldessari
12 Henry Taylor
16 The Next Wave In
10 Betye Saar
12 George Herms
36 Lithium Legs and Apocalyptic Photons
29 Steve Degroodt and Carl Byron
13 Bruce Pollock
14 Semina Culture
20 lvaro Siza/Architect
10 Nira Pereg
17 Michael Queenland
15 Richard Jackson
12 Lynn Aldrich
12 Allan Sekula
11 Mark Leckey
11 Sharon Levy
13 Callum Morton
14 Action Station
13 Libro/Oggetto
9 Al Taylor
24 Milton Glaser for Lapchi
20 Kerry James Marshall
20 Old Glory, New Story
10 Kota Ezawa
10 Lee Miller
16 Rosamond Purcell
12 Khalif Kelly
23 Far off the Beaten Path
11 Linda Roush
24 Milton Glaser for Lapchi
11 Andrew Lord
13 Stephen Keene
6 Beth B
13 Beatrice Wood
7 Sue Coe
13 Eleanor Antin
12 Khalif Kelly
16 Margaret Nielsen
11 Urs Fischer
12 Karen Carson
14 Rebecca Morris
15 Kianja Strobert
12 Brody Condon
9 Knowledge
12 Henry Taylor
34 Stuart Bender and Angelo Funicelli
11 Ken Brecher
13 The Book Show
15 Marco Brambilla
8 Liza Lou
14 Charles Gaines
11 Lavi Daniel
13 Jeffrey Wells
12 Kelly Barrie
12 Cavepainting
16 Johan Grimonprez
14 Martin Kersels
12 Hannah Wilke
27 Anne Bray and Molly Cleator
17 East of the River
13 Libro/Oggetto
14 Between Worlds
12 Jim Isermann
14 Arnold Mesches
12 Public Works
9 Arik Levy
11 John Mandel
14 3  Abstraction
17 Michael Queenland
10 David Nash
11 Luca Buvoli

http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description
100
5739 Hey mister, which way to the donkey show?If you don t like the picture, blame the ass.For over a century, millions of Americans have put on sombreros and posed for tourist photographs on top of donkeys in the border city of Tijuana, Mexico. For almost as long, one of the greatest urban legends in all of California history has been the Tijuana donkey show, the much-rumored, often-referenced, but never proven south of the border sex show that is perpetually re-invented in American high school locker rooms. The Donkey Show explores the border s intersection of myth and reality through a blend of over 200 rare tourist photographs, vintage nightlife ephemera, and pop songs born of American myths of Tijuana. The exhibition is guest curated by cultural anthropologist and graphic design historian Jim Heimann and author and music critic Josh Kun.The Donkey Show, one of the greatest urban legends in all of border history has been a key narrative of the American tourist since WWII. It has been referenced in songs, Hollywood films, and for decades has lurked in the dark corners of American fantasies about what lies just below the borderline-that capital of boundless vice and sombrero-clad savagery where morals drown in tequila, men offer their wives and sisters for the right price, and where only the taxi drivers (those tour guides of the forbidden) know the way to the donkey show. The myth of the donkey show proliferated as Tijuana s reputation as a den of ill repute grew in the American mind, from U.S. sex comics such as Tijuana Bibles and early U.S. smut films set in Tijuana, to local burlesque and prostitution houses. The trip to Tijuana soon became a rite of passage for California teenagers, memorialized in movies such as Big Wednesday and Losin  It (which featured Tom Cruise leading the Tijuana charge) and TV shows such as Moesha and The OC.The other donkey is the one that the millions of tourists who ve visited Tijuana actually get to know. That donkey is the one they sit on top of wearing sombreros lettered with  Just Married,   On My Ass,  and  Still Drunk  in front of a painted backdrop of  Old Mexico,  posing for souvenir photographs snapped by the Mexican entrepreneurs who ve been putting smiling Americans atop donkeys-day in, day out-since the turn of the 20th century. That donkey is a source of local business; that donkey is a local joke on American tourists looking for  the real thing  and getting Mexican make-believe.Beginning in the late 1880s, Tijuana was fertile soil for American investment and American tourism, an early hub of hot springs, horse races, casinos and bullfights that exploded once Prohibition went into effect. American newspaper, railroad, and entertainment moguls poured money into the small dusty town (in 1900, Tijuana had a population of only 242) that was a short carriage ride from San Diego, creating a haven for vices unattainable on the opposite side of the border. Americans crossed the border to lose themselves in a fun house of racial stereotypes, seeing  native dances  and cock fights, donning serapes and sombreros, and posing with donkeys before they headed back home. It didn t take long for Tjuana locals to start cashing in on the distortions that Americans were expecting to find, giving the tourists want they wanted to see:  old Mexico,   the sleepy Mexican,  the Spanish seorita, the fat mustachioed bandido. By 1938, the Mexicans who ran the donkey cart photo stands began to paint black stripes on their animal stars so they could be better seen on the increasingly inferior film stock. Ever since, not only have millions of tourists sat on top of donkeys posing as  Mexicans,  they ve sat on top of  zonkeys  posing as  Mexicans. The striped donkey has become something of an official Tijuana mascot, lending its name and image to local bars, local industry, and as of 2010, even to a new city basketball team (Los Zonkeys).  The striped donkey is characteristic of the city,  Tijuana journalist Aida Silva Hernandez once wrote,  It is the history of Tijuana. The Donkey Show assembles over 200 tourist donkey cart photos from the early 1900s-1980s (one that even includes F. Scott Fitzgerald), alongside rare Tijuana nightlife, burlesque, and vice ephemera. The images are joined by a soundtrack culled from dozens of US pop, rock, and blues songs about the imaginary Mexico that awaits American tourists once they head south of the border. Like the donkey show of legend, The Donkey Show plays with the power of the border s bait and switch: the show promises the forbidden but delivers cultural history and critique.What has driven millions of Americans of all backgrounds-white, Black, Latino, young, old-to have their picture taken on a donkey for well over a century? How have Mexican entrepreneurs turned American myth into local business and local culture? In a photo of a tourist and a donkey, which one is the ass?And most importantly, how do you get to the donkey show?Biographies of the guest curators:Jim Heimann is a cultural anthropologist and graphic design historian who is Executive Editor for TASCHEN America. He is the author of numerous books on architecture, pop culture, and the history of the West Coast, Los Angeles and Hollywood. The Donkey Show draws heavily from his private collection of ephemera that has been featured in museum exhibitions around the world and in dozens of books.Josh Kun is an author, music critic, and professor in the Annenberg School for Communication and Journalism at the University of Southern California, where he directs the Popular Music Project of The Norman Lear Center. He has taught and written extensively on the cultural worlds connecting Southern California and Tijuana, Mexico.
1219 In Morandi s Lawn, Blue McRight illustrated her ecological and environmental concerns in an installation comprising 682 objects and 13 digital photographs. Each day for a year from April 1, 2003 to April 1, 2004 McRight collected and arranged into a still life the recyclable glass, plastic, and metal containers that she and her husband generated in their household. She digitally photographed each still life and then dismantled it. Next, she painstakingly covered the containers with artificial turf and added them to an ever-expanding floor installation, which literally grew into a huge still life that imitated both topiary and natural lawn in color, texture, and scale. Although Morandi s Lawn documented McRight s own personal daily ritual, it addressed larger contemporary issues of consumerism and consumption, trash production, and recycling. The title of the piece alludes to the Italian artist Giorgio Morandi (1890-1964), who painted such simple household containers as vases, wine bottles, cups, and bowls, in an exquisite celebration of the everyday object. The installation therefore venerated and poked fun at the art-historical genre of still life, while also referencing landscape and garden design.
914 Daniel Cummings: Recent Paintings is the artist s first museum exhibition. Cummings (b. 1980) is a graduate of the MFA program at UCLA in sculpture, where he transferred his interest in 3-dimensional objects to painting. His abstract work plays with space and color in a variety of scales. The result: Deceptively simple, formal compositions that belie complex figure/ground relationships.This exhibition will feature six new works that investigate surface and pictorial depth, as well as the space between abstraction and figuration. In works like Metro, figures seem to emerge from shadowy environments, alluding to deep space and movement. Works like Untitled-with its central, ghostly, soft pink blur placed on background shapes in orange, blue, white, and black-deftly combine loose and semi-transparent washes with carefully wrought pictorial structure. Born in Pittsburgh, he lives and works in Los Angeles.
502 Birrell s gradually evolving installation, which incorporated photographs and found objects, was presented in three parts in a specially built space inside the museum s west gallery. Within the 25  15 10 1/2 foot structure, Birrell utilized natural motifs, such as growth, branching, and trees, as metaphors for progress, selection, and ordering. Visitors viewing each of the three progressive permutations gained a successive and cumulative overview of this mixed-media, multidimensional presentation.
473 The work in this exhibition was a visual manifestation of an ongoing conversation between Peter Doig, Chris Ofili, and Laura Owens, three painters who, although working separately, had closely followed one another s artistic practice for several years. The three artists each created a new body of work articulating their overlapping interests and influences, while also responding to the Museum s space. Cavepainting was an artist-directed project organized by the museum.
2064 Georgi Tushev: Strange Attractor presents paintings and a work on paper that investigate the effects of oil paint when exposed to extreme magnetic fields. Tushev s signature works explore the dynamism of pigment, the physical possibilities of paint, and the transformation of matter. He uses pigments that contain high concentrations of iron that, when exposed to magnets, create textured, three-dimensional surfaces, where paint seemingly explodes off the picture plane. Tushev s works on paper are made through a similar technique, though in water, where the magnetic fields separate the watercolor pigments into areas of black, white, and gray and create concentric rings and circular patterns.Tushev s abstract pictorial space is evocative of natural forms and biological processes. On the macro level, the work appears geological, celestial like lunar terrain. On the micro level, it suggests a view from under the microscope of cell division and mitosis. Tushev s method is inherently experimental; his compositions are subject to varying degrees of chance and instability. His long-time scientific testing of material has resulted in works that are arresting in form and astonishing in process.Strange Attractor is the first Los Angeles show for Tushev and his debut museum exhibition; it also marks the inauguration of NY/LA, the Museum s new exhibition series that connects contemporary art on both coasts. Strange Attractor is organized by New York-based curator Jeffrey Uslip.Tushev (b. 1969) was born in Bulgaria and lives and works in New York City. He earned a graduate degree from the National Academy of Fine Arts, Sofia, Bulgaria, and completed a residency at the Santa Fe Art Institute, New Mexico, and a Master Class of Painting in Amsterdam with painter Markus Lupertz.Tushev s work has been represented in solo exhibitions in San Francisco at Noma Gallery and in Sofia, Bulgaria, at XXL Gallery.Support for Georgi Tushev: Strange Attractor has been provided in part by Peter Gelles and Eve Steele Gelles. NY/LA: A New, Annual Exhibition Series
2865 Libro/Oggetto: Italian Artists  Books 1960s-Now presents a concise history of Italian art through the form of the artist s book. The artist s book is extremely varied in the imagery, language, medium, and content embraced by its author and the wide range of examples selected for this exhibition emphasizes the possibilities of the genre. In many instances, in fact, the included works do not conform to the traditional structure of a book, or, for that matter, to any conventional art object. They are a hybrid form: book/art/object. Conceived as a complement to Combustione: Alberto Burri and America, Libro/Oggetto features works by Burri s contemporaries and successors, creating a contextual framework for his production.Libro/Oggetto includes work by 49 artists working in a wide array of artistic movements. For example, the Visual Poetry artists of the 1960s and  70s used the book inventively to explore the combination of text and image. Arte Povera, which erupted from within a consumer society marked by mass production, sought to create work with  poor means.  For these artists, the book became a vehicle for constructing a new, raw visual vocabulary with everyday materials. During the late 1970s and early  80s, the Transavanguardia movement dramatically expanded the definition of painting. For those artists, the book was the perfect format in which to show their new brand of figuration and narrative.A generation of young artists continues to work with this form, expanding upon the trails blazed by their forebears. Libro/Oggetto illustrates the rich diversity inherent in the artist s book, revealing the artistic trends of Italian art over the past 50 years.Libro/Oggetto: Italian Artists  Books 1960s-Nowfeatures works by: Giovanni Anselmo, Stefano Arienti, Mirella Bentivoglio, Alighiero Boetti, Alberto Burri, Luca Buvoli, Chiara Camoni, Paolo Canevari, Loriana Castano, Maurizio Cattelan, Sandro Chia, Giuseppe Chiari, Francesco Clemente, Enzo Cucchi, Gino de Dominicis, Nicola De Maria, Mario Diacono, Luciano Fabro, Giovanni Ferrario, Emilio Isgr, Jannis Kounellis, Ketty La Rocca, Andrea Marescalchi, Amedeo Martegani, Luigia Martelloni, Fabio Mauri, Mario Merz, Eugenio Miccini, Bruno Munari, Maurizio Nannucci, Luigi Ontani, Pierpaolo Pagano, Mimmo Paladino, Luca Pancrazzi, Giulio Paolini, Claudio Parmiggiani, Pino Pascali, Giuseppe Penone, Luciano Perna, Lucia Pescador, Lamberto Pignotti, Michelangelo Pistoletto, Arnaldo Pomodoro, Pedro Riz a Porta, Ettore Spalletti, Allessandra Spranzi, Mauro Staccioli, Ernesto Tatafiore, and Emilio Villa.Libro/Oggetto: Italian Artists  Books 1960s-Now was organized by guest curatorsGiovanna Zamboni Paulis and Randi Malkin Steinberger.Support for the exhibition has been provided by Fondazione Azzurra. Additional support is provided by the Istituto Italiano di Cultura (IIC), Los Angeles.
663 What began twenty years ago as a temporary assignment to provide an art program for  learning-disabled  students became an internationally recognized collaborative force known as Tim Rollins + K.O.S. Rollins works with  Kids of Survival  to create contemporary art that is simultaneously individual and collaborative, as concerned with content as image, and involves the teaching of great books as well as great artists. For SMMoA, Rollins led a three-day workshop with twelve youths from the outreach program, Virginia Avenue Park Project, which culminated in an exhibition of poetic and fanciful artwork based on William Shakespeare s A Midsummer Night s Dream.
280 Hosted by the Santa Monica Museum of Art, the 1993 annual exhibition of the Los Angeles Center for Photographic Studies included photographic work by LACPS members from around the country. Juried by Ann Goldstein, Associate Curator for the Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles.
830 America the Beautiful was the first comprehensive museum exhibition of journals and mixed-media collages by Exene Cervenka, an icon of the Los Angeles music scene and one of the founding members of the seminal Los Angeles punk group, X. A musician, poet, and visual and spoken-word artist for more than thirty years, Cervenka created journals, dating from 1974 through 2005, that combine rough drafts of songs and personal reflections rendered in a baroque calligraphic script, with photographs, drawings, and scraps of ephemera that she found while traveling as a musician. Similarly, she created the collages from found materials to form an interpretative composite portrait of the country she came to know through her life experiences on the road. America the Beautiful was guest-curated by Michael Duncan and Kristine McKenna.
2591 A key artist of his generation, Wallace Berman (1938-1976) was an enigmatic, underground figure whose collages and assemblages articulate an important strand of dark mysticism in post-War American culture. Berman s hand-printed, personally distributed literary journal, Semina (1955-1964) stands as an iconic document of its time. The first major museum exhibition to examine the significance of the charismatic Wallace Berman, Semina Culture: Wallace Berman   His Circle featured the complete loose-leaf run of Semina, as well as artworks, photographs, and publications by forty-nine artists that manifest the scope and interests of the new  Semina Culture.  More than seventy photographic portraits from Berman s archive were also shown for the first time, revealing the close-knit nature of this underground community.These participants in an important emerging counterculture, the Beat movement of the 1950s and 1960s, pursued an alternative way of thinking about the purpose and formal nature of art, infusing their works with nostalgia, lyricism, feeling, and a sense of the ephemeral. They include Robert Alexander, John Altoon, Toni Basil, Paul Beattie, Ray and Bonnie Bremser, Charles Brittin, Joan Brown, Cameron, Bruce Conner, Jean Conner, Jay DeFeo, Diane DiPrima, Kirby Doyle, Bobby Driscoll, Robert Duncan, Joe Dunn, Llyn Foulkes, Loree Foxx, Ralph Gibson, Allen Ginsberg, Billy Gray, George Herms, Jack Hirschman, Dennis Hopper, Billy Jahrmarkt, Jess, Lawrence Jordan, Patricia Jordan, Bob Kaufman, Philip Lamantia, William Margolis, Michael McClure, Taylor Mead, David Meltzer, Henry Miller, Stuart Perkoff, John Reed, Arthur Richer, Rachel Rosenthal, Jack Smith, Dean Stockwell, Ben Talbert, Russel Tamblyn, Aya (Tarlow), Edmund Teske, Zack Walsh, Lew Welch, and John Wieners. For these iconoclasts, art was a joyful and creative expression, not a means to an artworld career. Their approach to the purpose and formal nature of art and culture existed on a vastly different track from the canonical traditions of abstract expressionism, minimalism, and postmodernism.Guest-curated by Michael Duncan and Kristine McKenna, Semina Culture traveled to the Nora Eccles Harrison Museum of Art, Utah State University, Logan, Utah (January 10   March 15, 2006); the Ulrich Museum of Art, Wichita State University, Wichita, Kansas (April 21   July 9, 2006); the University of California, Berkeley Art Museum   Pacific Film Archive, Berkeley, California (October 17   December 10, 2006); and The Grey Art Gallery, New York University, New York, New York (January 16   March 31, 2007).
298 This exhibition surveyed work from the preceding seventeen years by acclaimed British artist David Nash. The thirty works included large-scale sculpture, drawings, and photographs inspired by the natural environment, particularly trees. This survey was presented as part of the UK/LA Festival 1994.
1269 In his first museum exhibition, Khalif Kelly presents a new series of paintings based on vignettes from imaginary fairy tale adventures that portray children interacting with an array of weird and wonderful protagonists. With a fresh and vivid palette, a reductive, cartoon-like figurative style with a metallic-like patina reminiscent of video game robots and characters, Kelly creates scenes that on closer inspection reveal a mixture of personal archetypes and classic racial stereotypes.The artist s aesthetic includes references to the figurative work of Jacob Lawrence and to the controversial stop motion animations of George Pal, especiallyJohn Henry and the Inky-Pooand theJasperseries from the 1940s. Like Pal, Kelly utilizes the perception of race as a narrative device, something to work with and work against in the children s formation of identity through play.Kelly was born in Nashville, Tennessee in 1980 and grew up in Arlington, Texas. He received his B.F.A. in Painting from The School of the Art Institute of Chicago, and his M.F.A. from Yale University. The artist lives and works in New Haven, Connecticut, and also works in New York. Support for the exhibition is provided by the Peter Norton Family Foundation on behalf of Eileen Harris Norton.
914 Daniel Cummings: Recent Paintings is the artist s first museum exhibition. Cummings (b. 1980) is a graduate of the MFA program at UCLA in sculpture, where he transferred his interest in 3-dimensional objects to painting. His abstract work plays with space and color in a variety of scales. The result: Deceptively simple, formal compositions that belie complex figure/ground relationships.This exhibition will feature six new works that investigate surface and pictorial depth, as well as the space between abstraction and figuration. In works like Metro, figures seem to emerge from shadowy environments, alluding to deep space and movement. Works like Untitled-with its central, ghostly, soft pink blur placed on background shapes in orange, blue, white, and black-deftly combine loose and semi-transparent washes with carefully wrought pictorial structure. Born in Pittsburgh, he lives and works in Los Angeles.
502 Fred Wilson: Objects and Installations, 1979-2000 represented a sustained aesthetic inquiry by a distinguished American artist into the relationship between art and the museum. Wilson s mock museum installations, into which he places provocative and beautifully rendered objects, explore the question of how the museum consciously or unconsciously perpetuates prejudice. The exhibition was organized by Maurice Berger and the Center for Art and Visual Culture, University of Maryland, Baltimore County.
1021 An epic body of work by Los Angeles photographic artist Allan Sekula, Fish Story was created over a five-year period of research that included travel to industrial ports all over the world. This project explored the historical, sociopolitical, aesthetic, and literary connections among such far-flung port cities as New York, Rotterdam, Los Angeles, Hong Kong, and Seoul. Consisting of a sequence of 105 large-scale, color photographs interspersed with narrative panels authored by Sekula, as well as two slide projections, Fish Story wove an intricate web of visual and verbal associations among panoramic views of the sea, detailed close-ups of nautical devices, cargo containers, warehouses, sailors, and shipyard workers, locating the individual elements in an ever-shifting cross-current of global exchange: of goods, money, knowledge, and power. This exhibition was organized by Chris Dercon for the Witte de With Center for Contemporary Art, Rotterdam, the Netherlands, and was accompanied by a full-color catalog.
439 This exhibition brought together more than fifty posters produced by the preeminent graphic artist Milton Glaser   from his iconic Dylan to his series for the Palermo Opera House. One of the most influential figures in the history of international design, Glaser has worked in a great variety of forms, including posters, book jackets, album sleeves, CD covers, store and restaurant designs, toy creations, magazine formats, and logotypes.
800 Organized by Capp Street Project in San Francisco, Old Glory, New Story presented assemblage, painting, photography, and mixed-media works by artists, architects, and industrial and graphic designers, working both individually and collaboratively. As the new millennium approached, these artists recognized that significant forces had altered and expanded America s social and political landscape over the preceding century. In response, they created new flags and symbols for the United States as it prepared to enter the new century, even as they acknowledged the persistence of this two-hundred-year-old icon. Among the participating artists were Vito Acconci, Squeak Carnwath, Margaret Crane and John Winet, Lewis DeSoto, Douglas Hollis, Suzanne Lacy, Richard Posner, Joe Sam, and Andres Serrano.
365 Utilizing 3D computer animation rear-projected against two large picture windows, with each work accompanied by an audio score, Gender Specific addressed issues of location and gender differentiation. Steinkamp s installation was presented in conjunction with the Foundation for Art Resources and Bliss, as part of the citywide Los Angeles Freewaves Video Festival.
785 Behind the Mask, an installation created for the museum s Focus Gallery by New York artist Luca Buvoli, was the tenth installment in Buvoli s ongoing series, Not a Superhero. The artist s infatuation with American superheroes began when he was a child living in Italy, and it continues in the form of his exploration of the relationship between human aspirations and the larger-than-life capabilities of superheroes. Composed of an artist s book, drawings, collages, and sculpture made from urban detritus (candy wrappers, bits of plastic, wire, and rags), Behind the Mask considered issues of individual, national, and universal identity in relation to the moral struggles of our time struggles that are characterized less by the conflict of good and evil than by ambiguity and guilt.
406 With wit, intuition, and paint, Kovachevich transformed discarded plastic packaging materials into more than one hundred intimate and unusual paintings in the museum s Project Room. In a second space at the museum, the artist created a large-scale sculptural installation from brown paper packing tape a monumental, linear bouquet that changed shape over time in response to airflow, humidity, and entropy.
1586 Kelly Barrie: Mirror House is a new, large-format photographic work created especially for Project Room 1 at the Santa Monica Museum of Art. Including drawing, dance, performance, and digital collage, Barrie s work investigates the relationship between historical memory and aesthetic practice in this case, using Hurricane Katrina as the backdrop.Barrie uses images of the effects of traumatic events as his artistic source material. Mirror House began with a found photograph of a flooded house and tree from New Orleans in the aftermath of Katrina. The ghost image of the scene evokes a dreamscape rather than a pictorial representation of a calamity. The end result is a poignant, Surrealist-like mural that transforms a real-life disaster into a disorienting but beautiful reverie.Barrie s multi-dimensional process combines many artistic genres. He  performs  his response to found photographs on his studio floor by literally drawing the image with his feet, dragging photo-luminescent pigment on black paper with toe drags, heel spins, snake walks, and foot sweeps. He then photographs his  drawing  with a 35 mm camera utilizing natural daylight stored in the light-sensitive powder. The powder s light is released by using the vertical blinds in the studio as a type of aperture. More than seventy photographs were taken with a grid system to document the drawing. Barrie then digitally stitched these photographs together to construct the finished work which is both haunting and painterly.This exhibition has been supported by David Knaus. Special thanks to Michael Maloney.
771 Dugout II (Hold on to the House), the most recent episode in an ongoing epic by artist, musician, and playwright, Terry Allen, is a love story set in 1950s America that investigates the invention of memory through sculpture, music, film, and theater. Allen describes Dugout II as  an audio/visual investigation into the end of the world, how memory blows up and changes everything, and how atomic monsters take over the earth a kind of Supernatural-Jazz-History-Ghost-Blood-Fiction.  The exhibition at the Santa Monica Museum of Art was presented as art of a larger, multimedia, collaborative project, Dugout, which included a complementary exhibition at L.A. Louver Gallery, a performance at L.A. Theatre Works, and a lecture at The LACMA Institute for Art and Cultures.
713 An exhibition of the final works by the late visual and performance artist Hannah Wilke, Intra-Venus included large-scale photographs, watercolors, sculptures, and drawings. Wilke s work related to the female nude form an uncompromising record of her own physical deterioration due to lymphoma; central to the exhibit was a series of thirteen larger-than-life-sized portraits. In typical Wilke fashion, the title of these final works, also Intra-Venus, is a pun, referring both to a medical procedure she came to know and to the traditional feminine ideal that was the lifelong focus of her artistic investigation. Intra-Venus was organized by Ronald Feldman Fine Arts, New York, and was accompanied by a catalog.
2130 Investigating the idea that there are impurities and  inhibitants  in our atmosphere that cause creative blockage, frustration, inefficiency, and confusion, Bruce Busby creates environments,Creativity Enhancement Shelters, in which we can escape these negative forces and regain peace of mind and the ability to think clearly. Designed, cut, and sewn by the artist, the nylon shelters take on a wide variety of shapes, sizes, and color combinations, and appear as idiosyncratic tents. From bifurcated and curvilinear structures to objects suggesting cutting-edge teepees, Busby s shelters include transparent sections, mesh windows, and even, in some cases, a central oculus that imparts a chapel-like environment, perfect for reflection and contemplation. The structures shield their users both physically and conceptually from the vices of the urban landscape. Though sturdy, tensile, and self-supporting, all of Busby s shelters are also completely collapsible and transportable, so that one s filtration system can be taken along and erected anywhere.For his first museum exhibition at SMMoA, Busby created an installation including a new large-scale shelter that is modular and can be attached to any number of other like structures through a system of quick-release buckles and zippers. While his shelters are structured around concepts of mobility and flexibility, Busby s new drawings have a geographic specificity. Included in the exhibition were a series of Busby sCreativity Amplification Quakes (CRAQUE)drawings, depicting intricate, billowing clouds of contamination rising from the actual fault lines of the San Francisco Bay and Los Angeles areas. These lush, detailed renderings have a rich, almost baroque handling, belying a sinister, fluid, and pervading energy that rises from and swirls around the land. Busby began the series as a way to diagram and become intimately reacquainted with the simultaneously beautiful and dangerous California topography. By articulating the literal cracks within these particular landscapes, Busby links the work both to his Bay Area home and to the Santa Monica Museum of Art.
1593 SMMoA presents the United States premier of Sabbath 2008, a video which documents the closing down of the ultra-orthodox neighborhoods in and around Jerusalem on the eve of the Sabbath. In most cases, public access to these neighborhoods is blocked by means of temporary barriers, which remain closed for 24 hours thus creating an artificial border between the orthodox areas and the rest of the city. The barriers are put in place by neighborhood residents, with the approval and support of the Jerusalem municipality and the police. The city therefore becomes topologically transformed into two cities one with and one without cars. Although the value of these somewhat rickety barriers may appear symbolic, their presence is sometimes a source of friction and conflict; they delineate a clear cut boundary between the sacred and the everyday. Pereg s subject matter is often full of political tension, but in Sabbath 2008, she has created a film that is objective in offering a documentary view of an important aspect of religious Jewish life.Pereg was born in Israel in 1969, and now lives in Israel and Germany. She received her B.F.A from Cooper Union in New York, and graduated from the Bezalel M.F.A studio program in Jerusalem. Her works have been exhibited at such venues as PS 1 New York; HDK Berlin; ZKM Karlsruhe; the Israel Museum in Jerusalem; Herzliya Museum of Contemporary Art; Liverpool Biennial, England (2006); and Loop Video-Art Fair, Barcelona, Spain (2006).Nira Pereg: Sabbath 2008 has been supported in part by The Jewish Federation s Tel Aviv/Los Angeles Partnership.
1099 For the past decade, Santa Monica-based artist Jona Frank has used photography and film to explore the American adolescent experience. Lincoln High ROTC, Frank s first solo museum exhibition, featured two three-screen videosJulia, Drill Team and Bravo Company, Squad Drill Competitionabout members of the Junior ROTC program at Lincoln High School in the San Francisco Bay area. In these films, her camera angles and cuts revealed both physical and psychological details about the students, from their commitment and seriousness to their youth and awkwardness. Without agenda or judgment, Frank elucidated her subjects  dualitiesculturally diverse Junior ROTC students training to embrace a strict and singular vision, and the adolescent penchant to challenge authority in confluence with efforts to conform to group rules. At once dispassionate and intimate, Frank s videos portrayed the timeless and endearingly awkward vulnerability of young people on the threshold of adulthood, searching for personal meaning in their lives by mimicking postures and responses that seek to efface individuality.
2270 Kianja Strobert: Nothing to Do but Keep Going, the artists first solo museum exhibition, features a new, site-specific sculptural installation and a selection of recent abstract paintings that emphasize the influence of urban architecture on Stroberts work. Her sculptures showcase the dynamic use of such materials as pumice, sand, flexible LED wire, concrete, cinderblocks, and gilded chicken boneswhich she utilizes to explore architectural form and mark making. The exhibition also features select paintings on cinderblock that create textured, topographical surfaces, as well as a range of works on paper that recall finger painting, with smears in a palette of red, brown, and yellow.Kianja Strobert: Nothing to Do but Keep Goingis organized by SMMoA s newly appointed curator-at-large Jeffrey Uslip.Major support for Santa Monica Museum of Art exhibitions has been provided by The Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts. Additional funding has been provided by the City of Santa Monica and the Santa Monica Arts Commission; Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors through the Los Angeles County Arts Commission; Dean V. Ambrose; Good Works Foundation and Laura Donnelley; Abby Sher; Rosa and Bob Sinnott; The Audrey and Sydney Irmas Charitable Foundation; Marla and Jeffrey Michaels; Pasadena Art Alliance; and Frederick R. Weisman Art Foundation.About the artist: Kianja Strobert was born in 1980 and lives and works in Hudson, New York. She earned a Bachelors of Arts degree from The School of the Art Institute of Chicago and a Masters of Fine Arts degree from Yale University School of Art. Her work has been shown at The Studio Museum in Harlem, New York, as well as at galleries including Jack Tilton Gallery, and Zach Feuer Gallery, New York; and Vox Populi Gallery, Philadelphia.About the curator: Jeffrey Uslip (b. 1977) is a New York-based independent curator, who has organized exhibitions for PS1/MOMA, New York, Artists Space, New York, Columbia Universitys Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, California State University, Los Angeles, and LAXART, Los Angeles. He is an online contributor to Art Forum, has lectured at the Whitney Museum of American Art, and is currently a doctoral candidate at The Institute of Fine Arts, New York University.
658 With the new work created for this exhibition, internationally acclaimed artist Mary Kelly continued her exploration of narrative as visual form. The Ballad of Kastriot Rexhepi recounts the legend, based on factual accounts, of an Albanian boy left for dead on a battlefield in Kosovo, rescued by Serbs, and eventually reunited with his parents. To accompany Mary Kelly s text, renowned English composer Michael Nyman wrote an original choral work, which was performed at the exhibition s opening. The project addressed the traumatic effects of war and its representation in the media, as well as the psychic residue of these phenomena in our everyday lives.
446 Betye Saar addressed concepts of passage, crossroads, change, death, and rebirth in Limbo, an exhibition of several separate installations. The environment that Saar created exuded a meditative atmosphere to involve the viewer emotionally as well as visually. Areas of the installation invited visitors to participate in simple, personal rituals of creative grieving by writing the name of a deceased person on the wall and by waving a rainstick.
520 LAX: The Los Angeles Exhibition was the first of an ongoing series of biennial exhibitions held concurrently at eight venues across the Los Angeles area. Included at the Santa Monica Museum of Art were Visiting Hours, a performative installation by Bob Flanagan with Sheree Rose, and Body Politic: Perception and Use of the Body as a Messenger of Social Change, a group exhibition curated by Lizzetta LeFalle-Collins with work by Michele Elizabeth (whose piece included a performance), Todd Gray, and Lyle Ashton Harris.
353 A life-sized female figure clumsily carved from wax melts from the fire burning in her head; the rear-end of a scruffy dog awkwardly wags its mechanical tail. Linked by implication rather than style, this willful selection of disparate works combined to create What Should an Owl do with a Fork, a site-specific installation by Swiss artist Urs Fischer.
2281 Enigma Variations: Philip Guston and Giorgio de Chiricoexplored the influence of de Chirico s distinctive vision on Guston, and investigated the two artists  shared motifs, subjects, and affinities. Although the Greek-born, Italian de Chirico (1888-1978) and the American Philip Guston (1913-1980) were from different generations and painted in different artistic environments, Guston closely followed de Chirico s work throughout his life. Featuring works from the early and late careers of both artists,Enigma Variations examined Guston s transformation of de Chirico s visual vocabulary antique statues, mannequins, gladiators, clocks, and canvas stretchers through his own unique and inimitable style.Guston s interest in de Chirico s imagery went hand in hand with a heartfelt admiration for the example the older artist set as an artist. De Chirico had weathered a barrage of criticism after his early success with his Metaphysical paintings from the 1910s, but he nonetheless embraced radical change and painted in a variety of styles while serially revisiting his own earlier motifs for the next fifty years. Guston too made a major stylistic shift: away from the formal purity of abstract expressionism from the 1940s and 1950s, which had won him great acclaim to raw, controversial figurative paintings at the end of the 1960s, which were initially harshly reviewed.Enigma Variationsfeatured rarely seen late works by de Chirico, about which Guston remained an outspoken champion, always inspired and delighted by de Chirico s capacity to surprise.Enigma Variationsinvestigated the specific parallels and points of intersection in ideas of these two twentieth-century masters, offering a unique lens through which to see and understand the work. The exhibition was cocurated by Michael Taylor of the Philadelphia Museum of Art and Lisa Melandri of the Santa Monica Museum of Art.  1 (left) Philip GustonBy the Window, 1969Oil on canvas78 x 81 1/4 inchesPrivate collection, courtesy of McKee Gallery, New York copyright the Estate of Philip Guston(right) Giorgio de ChiricoThe Poet and His Muse, 1925Oil and tempera on canvas35 7/8 x 29 inchesPhiladelphia Museum of Art, The Louise and Walter Arensberg Collectioncopyright Artists Rights Society (ARS), New York/SIAE, Rome
247 Dutch artist Lara Schnitger produces large, site-specific installations using a variety of mundane materials such as stockings and chopsticks. In this exhibition, her sprawling, tentacular installation transformed the Project Room into a bat cave.
1301 3 x Abstraction: New Methods of Drawing by Hilma af Klint, Emma Kunz, and Agnes Martin juxtaposed 100 rarely if ever seen paintings, drawings, and watercolors by these three artists of different generations. This major historical exhibition illuminated the extraordinary contributions made to abstract art by Hilma af Klint (Sweden, 1862-1944), Emma Kunz (Switzerland, 1892-1963), and Agnes Martin (Canada, 1912-2004). Each used distinctive formal devices particularly line, grid, and geometry to visualize and transform complex philosophical, scientific, and metaphysical ideas into powerful and transcendent works of art.The exhibition focused on a specific period of production within the life of each artist   af Klint s spare and evocative compositions made between 1895 and 1920; Kunz s complex large-scale drawings based on mathematical geometries; and Martin s meditative early grids, primarily from the 1960s when the grid was first emerging as a focus of her work. 3 x Abstraction introduced a wider public to the seminal, inspirational work af Klint and Kunz, and presented intriguing new perspectives on the oeuvre of Agnes Martin. 3 x Abstraction was organized by cocurators Catherine de Zegher, director of The Drawing Center, New York, and writer and independent curator Hendel Teicher.
1173 Henry Taylor: Girrrrrlis the first West Coast museum exhibition of this Los Angeles artist, whose paintings poignantly examine the social, political, and racial disparities that persist in the United States.Girrrrrlincludes four new works depicting scenes from Taylor s personal life and urban community.Taylor uses lush strokes, an exuberant color palette, and the language and logos of products and pop culture in his vivid portrayals of friends, loved ones, local characters, childhood memories, and neighborhood landscapes. The loosely painted and often crudely unfinished surfaces give the works a riveting, tangible immediacy, like Polaroids freshly pulled from the camera. The artist s experiences with poverty and homelessness before his enrollment at CalArts compellingly inform his practice. His unique blend of academic training and outsider s sensibility results in authentic, multilayered insights into the human condition.Taylor s exhibition title constructs a humorous duality, at once warmly referring to his mother, sister, and female friends, while also alluding slyly to the iconic Roy Lichtenstein print,Grrrrrrrr, featuring an aggressive, growling dog.
2119 Working in film, video, and installation, Diana Thater has been an innovator in her medium for 20 years and is best known for creating complex visual and spatial environments. Between Science and Magic is a simple, and beautiful, interpretation of  movie magic -a century-old expression that still conjures the mythology of Hollywood filmmaking. Thater s project is conceived as a brief history of cinema.Thater s new and innovatory piece recreates, and repositions, a seminal moment in Los Angeles history, when downtown LA was being dreamed into a gilded metropolis and a theater district was built to rival New York s Great White Way. Renowned magician Greg Wilson appears as if filmed within the famed Los Angeles Theatre, the most elaborate of the movie palaces built between 1911 and 1931 on Los Angeles s now-defunct  theater row.  Thus, the viewer experiences a palpable tension between past and present. The repeated performance of an archetypal magic trick-pulling a rabbit out of a hat-is captured in tones of black, white, and grey; only the magician s skin tone and the rabbit s eyes have a trace of color.A pioneering filmmaker, Thater s work is held in many public collections including the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, New York; Tate, London; the Whitney Museum of American Art, New York; the Art Institute of Chicago; and the Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles. She has been the subject of solo exhibitions at such prestigious institutions as the Vienna Secession; The Museum of Modern Art, New York; the Kunsthalle Basel; and The Renaissance Society, Chicago. Most recently, Thater s gorillagorillagorilla-a poignant study of human and animal behavior-was premiered at the Kunsthaus Graz, in collaboration with the Museum of Natural History in London, to celebrate the bicentenary of Charles Darwin s birth. Between Science and Magic is Thater s first solo exhibition in Los Angeles in over 10 years.Support for the exhibition is generously provided by The Broad Art Foundation, The Audrey and Sydney Irmas Charitable Foundation, and The Suzanne Nora Johnson and David Gordon Johnson Foundation.
803 Using an assembly-line, performance-based painting style, Keene produced more than 10,000 works of art for this exhibition, including benches, lanterns, and tablecloths, as well as paintings. He also set up a studio inside the Museum to let people view the performance of his painting. Keene chose images of works from catalogs of Los Angeles art collections and then duplicated them simultaneously on thirty or forty plywood boards he had set up around the gallery. The paintings were hung throughout the museum salon-style, then sold for prices ranging from 3 to 25. Keene compares his paintings to souvenirs, trading cards, and music CDs:  It s art, it s cheap, and it changes your life, but the object has no status.  This was Keene s largest show to date and his first exhibition on the West Coast.
1586 Kelly Barrie: Mirror House is a new, large-format photographic work created especially for Project Room 1 at the Santa Monica Museum of Art. Including drawing, dance, performance, and digital collage, Barrie s work investigates the relationship between historical memory and aesthetic practice in this case, using Hurricane Katrina as the backdrop.Barrie uses images of the effects of traumatic events as his artistic source material. Mirror House began with a found photograph of a flooded house and tree from New Orleans in the aftermath of Katrina. The ghost image of the scene evokes a dreamscape rather than a pictorial representation of a calamity. The end result is a poignant, Surrealist-like mural that transforms a real-life disaster into a disorienting but beautiful reverie.Barrie s multi-dimensional process combines many artistic genres. He  performs  his response to found photographs on his studio floor by literally drawing the image with his feet, dragging photo-luminescent pigment on black paper with toe drags, heel spins, snake walks, and foot sweeps. He then photographs his  drawing  with a 35 mm camera utilizing natural daylight stored in the light-sensitive powder. The powder s light is released by using the vertical blinds in the studio as a type of aperture. More than seventy photographs were taken with a grid system to document the drawing. Barrie then digitally stitched these photographs together to construct the finished work which is both haunting and painterly.This exhibition has been supported by David Knaus. Special thanks to Michael Maloney.
3693 In her first West Coast Museum exhibition, artist Nicole Cherubini presents new sculptures that reference the history of clay as a medium and feature forms made of terracotta, earthenware, and porcelain and surfaces arrived at through various hand-built, thrown and molded processes. New forms are accompanied and supported by materials such as wood, MDF, 2x3s, digital photographs, metal, glaze, enamel, and drawing materials.Cherubini s work brings antiquated notions of ceramics into a contemporary sculptural discourse as they invoke ideas rooted in conceptual art from the 1970s. The new  box  pieces presented at SMMoA come from a continued interest by Cherubini in movement, process, containment, and structure. These sculptures reference the cardboard pieces of Robert Rauschenberg, the material use of Robert Morris, ideas about physical space addressed by Donald Judd, and Eva Hesse s ability to challenge the 2-D and 3-D.Cherubini s large container is based on a Greek storage vessel from 500BC in the collection of the Metropolitan Museum, New York. Made of clay in multiple sections, it has no base and is filled with holes in defiance of its function. Barely glazed, most of its surface is raw, exposed, dry clay.Attached to this sculpture is a framed manipulated digital c-print of an 18th Century watercolor of The Portland Vase by T. Hosner Shepard. This vase, in the collection of The British Museum, London, was famously broken in February 1845 by an Irish university drop-out, William Mulcahy, who destroyed the vitrine and smashed the vase with a stone sculpture displayed nearby. Cherubini has drawn over this image with paint, graphite, and ink, depicting the shards before the piece was reconstructed.Cherubini uses the cardboard box in which manufactured clay comes as a mold for an object placed on a tall pedestal base. The collapsed, flaccid  box  is turned on its flattened side, adorned with pools and drips of glaze. Marks created by the mold and finger fully illustrate the process of its making, exposing both inside and out to the viewer.A large plywood pilaster, full of knots and cracks, displays brightly glazed hanging terracotta  boxes . These are glazed with intense semi-precious colors of lapis, turquoise, malachite, cobalt, and rose quartz. Their earthy and organic textures vary from high gloss to matte, and are texturized with shimmery sediment and crystals mixing in the firing process. A larger 5-sided clay  box  stands on its side nearby, made from white clay with a matte white glaze.Cherubini was born in Boston in 1970. She received her BFA in Ceramics from the Rhode Island School of Design and her MFA in Visual Arts from New York University, and later attended the Skowhegan School of Painting and Sculpture in Maine. She is a recipient of an NEA Travel Grant, a New England Foundation for the Arts Fellowship in Sculpture, the Louis Comfort Tiffany Foundation Award, and most recently an Art Matters Grant for travel in Mexico. Her work has been exhibited in group and solo exhibitions both internationally and in the United States; including the Institute of Contemporary Art, Philadelphia; the Walker Art Center, Minneapolis; Santa Barbara Contemporary Arts Forum, Santa Barbara, CA; Sculpture Center, New York; La Panadera, Mexico City; PS1/MoMA, New York; The Rose Art Museum, Boston; Samson Projects, Boston; and Galerie Michael Janssen, Berlin. Last fall, she had concurrent exhibitions at Smith Stewart Gallery and D Amelio Terras in New York. Cherubini lives and works in Brooklyn, New York.Nicole Cherubini is organized by the Santa Monica Museum of Art and curator Lisa Melandri, Deputy Director for Exhibitions and Programs.
374 Coe s cycle of work from 1988 to 1990 presented a thoroughly researched and extraordinarily moving exploration of the American meat industry, from biotechnology and factory farming to meat processing, marketing, and the environment. Organized by Galerie St. Etienne, New York, Porkopolisincluded forty-eight of Coe s strongest watercolor and graphite drawings and paintings.
342 Using text, sound, and slide and film projections, Opera of Blame examined the contrast between America s most closely held political, moral, and philosophical beliefs and their contemporary legacies. Presenting his conception of a West Coast Statue of Liberty, the artist depicted America as a moribund giant lurching around the Pacific Rim.
1069 Conceptual artist Mariella Bettineschi has garnered acclaim in her home country of Italy since the early 1980s. Voyager highlighted portions of her oeuvre from 1999 to 2005, and was Bettineschi s first West Coast museum exhibition. Though abstracted, Voyager nonetheless told a science-fiction story of a young woman s journey through space and time on a quest for omniscience. For SMMoA, Bettineschi created an installation comprising two bodies of work that formed a visual mosaic. The first, a series of light boxes titled At the Speed of Light (2005), transmitted rich colored and gestural light drawings and motion-altered photographs suggesting extraterrestrial travel. The second, Spaceship (1999), consisted of images printed directly on Plexiglas in reflective silver and black, portraying real and imaginary flying machines. Both series used the transparency and luminosity of the glass to combine the poetic and the ethereal with the mechanized and the concrete. At once slick and haunting, Bettineschi s work transported the viewer to an alternate universe.
4101 Arnold Mesches has created unabashedly figurative work for more than six decades and has emerged as a seminal figure in American painting and a remarkably fresh voice in contemporary art. In the West Coast debut of new paintings that explore the American condition,Arnold Mesches: Coming Attractionsopens at the Santa Monica Museum of Art on January 24 and will be on view through April 18, 2009.Mesches  most recent work delves into dark periods of American history and situates them in a hauntingly contemporary landscape. His work combines an interest in twentieth century political and social conflicts with a surrealist approach to painting offsetting frank, historical moments with rich, melodramatic dreamscapes.This new exhibition of Mesches  work, curated by Lisa Melandri, SMMoA s Deputy Director for Exhibitions and Programs, and uniquely installed in two Project Rooms, will feature selections from his most recent series, including landscapes and interiors. Aptly titled,Coming Attractionsalludes to the works  theatrical elements, as well as to a portent of what might be to come.Mesches  large-scale interiors and landscape canvases, are laden with acerbic colors and vigorous brushwork. In his interiors, Mesches fills opulent concert halls and antique salons with stark reminders of social and political realities, rendered in deep blacks, austere whites, and sickly greens against the blazing colors of their surroundings. Mesches  landscapes are similarly harrowing, depicting glimpses of human existence between the trunks of decaying trees. These canvases are portraits of a disturbing, looming future, both absurd and poignant, as well as emotionally authentic.The theatricality and grandeur of the paintings evoke Mesches  own history working in the movie industry during the 1940s and 50s in Los Angeles, and their skepticism and ominous sensibility harkens back to the 27 years he was subject to heavy scrutiny by the FBI for his participation in peace marches and demonstrations against McCarthyism and the House Un-American Activities Committee. Mesches eventually obtained his 760-page FBI file through a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request and turned dozens of the documents crisply typed white pages thick with black bars, dating from 1945 to 1972 into a popular and critically acclaimed art exhibition,The FBI Files.Throughout his 60-plus-year career as an artist, Mesches has woven many narratives into lush and virtuosic paintings, and inComing AttractionsMesches affirms that he is as potent as a painter and storyteller as ever. His life s work serves as a remarkable record of one artist s struggle to come to terms with the turmoil of the twentieth century. He has stood staunchly for using contemporary art as a vehicle for protest, a visual amplifier of societal good and evil.Coming Attractionsalso marks a homecoming for Mesches, who was born in the Bronx, grew up in Buffalo, New York, and moved to Los Angeles in 1943 to accept a scholarship at the Art Center School (now Art Center College of Design). Mesches spent nearly half his life in L.A., and came into his own here in the mid 1940s and into the 50s, becoming known and revered for his socially critical paintings and his portraits. He now resides in Gainesville, Florida. He is the recipient of many awards, including the Pollock-Krasner Foundation Grant (2002).Mesches has exhibited extensively throughout the United States and abroad in 125 solo exhibitions and countless group shows, and his works are included in many prestigious public and private collections, including the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the National Gallery of Art, the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, the Hirschhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, the Albright-Knox Museum, and the High Museum of Art. However, Mesches has still not received the global recognition or broad appreciation he so deserves for his influence and importance to the canon of contemporary art. As an antidote to this oversight, SMMoA will install Mesches  work in two Project Rooms, doubling the museum space normally allotted to such exhibitions.
413 Nishio s mixed-media installation utilized ready-made surveillance systems and security hardware designed to block or limit access, arranged to spell out such words as S-A-F-E and A-R-M-E-D-R-E-S-P-O-N-S-E. An assortment of recognizable objects chain-link fence, two-way mirrors, window guards, railings, surveillance systems created a psychological landscape of our fears, anxieties, and our need for protection.
792 French artist Pierre Molinier (1900-1976) left behind an extensive collection of photographs, paintings, fetish items, and correspondence that illuminates his two-decade artistic pursuit: the conceptual and pictorial transformation of his own recognizably male body into that of a hermaphrodite. This exhibition of eighty photographs traced Molinier s obsessive investigation of fetishism and transvestitism. The small and darkly seductive photographs revealed the unique vision that has inspired many body/performance artists and photographers since the early 1970s, when his work first received critical recognition. This exhibition was organized by Wayne Baerwaldt of Plug In Inc., a nonprofit center for contemporary art in Winnipeg, Canada, and was accompanied by an illustrated catalog.
307 The Santa Monica Museum of Art launched the 2003 Project Room season with Lauren Bon s Hand Held Objects, a series of abstract, biomorphic sculptures that obliquely reference parts of the human body. Spare yet sensual, exposed yet mysterious, the objects in the exhibition were actually handled by visitors.
571 Extending Jo Ann Callis s ruminations on the home, Domestic Setups consisted of a series of small-scale, color photographs depicting household scenes particularly beds and chairs that Callis had modeled from clay, covered with brightly colored flocking, and arranged to resemble tiny, stage-like rooms. Callis s interest in photography s ability to convey a sense of physical immediacy was evident in these photographs, in which the furnishings suggest the psychological lives of imagined inhabitants through the lively dynamics of color, shape, texture, and arrangement.
411 Leavitt transformed the museum s main gallery into a theater with row seating, a proscenium stage, and a set resembling a suburban living room for this one-act play. An eccentric Rube Goldbergian contraption, engineered by the main character to embody his personal cosmology, became a source of conflict among the five characters, whose various needs were contradictorily affected by the protagonist s creation.
472 This exhibition, organized by Bruria Finkel, called attention to the civil rights struggle in Tibet and included artworks by John Baldessari, Wallace Berman, Carl Chew, Bruria Finkel, Leon Golub, Noah Purifoy, and Nancy Spero. The Drepung Losling Monks, from one of Tibet s most artistically prestigious monasteries, created a sand mandala at the Museum from July 28 to August 3. The gallery was open for meditation from noon to 1 p.m. each Saturday during the exhibition.
623 The first solo museum exhibition of Santa Monica-based artist Miriam Wosk,Euphoriafeatured three large-scale paintings that were deeply encrusted with a glorious profusion of pearls, glitter, crystals, starfish, collage, and paint. The works resonated palpably with the energy of counterpoints intuition balanced against craft, physicality in conversation with spirituality, and precision coupled with abandon. Combining pictorial elegance with audacious excess, Wosk explored a fantastical, primordial universe born of pouring, painting, airbrushing, gluing, embedding, and coating in a devotional, mantra-like repetition.
416 An installation and collaborative performance piece by sculptor Stephen Glassman and choreographer-dancer Sarah Elgart, Zoo was commissioned by the museum specifically for the Edgemar courtyard designed by Frank Gehry. The piece incorporated three large-scale ambulatory sculptures from Glassman s Future Fossils Series: Eagle, Bear, and Snake. An original score by New York composer Ed Tomney accompanied the piece.
1290 Far Off the Beaten Path consisted of five richly textured monumental oil paintings from Annabel Livermore s Big Bend series. Livermore began the series in plein air fashion during three weekend drives along Texas Farm Road 170, on which she hauled along eighteen pieces of plywood. She laid the boards down on the ground before craggy scenes and quickly drew her impressions with a light mixture of oil paint and gasoline. During the next two years she worked on the pictures in her studio in El Paso. Unlike traditional plein air painting, Livermore s landscapes are filled with a brooding implied narrative fractured, jutting, cavernous, and glowing, they suggest a maelstrom brewing above and beneath the surface.Born and raised in the Upper Midwest, Livermore was a librarian before she retired to El Paso to paint. She has completed many radiant and lyrical bodies of work inspired by the cities and scenery of the region, including Jornada del Muerto,  N  Bar, and Desert Dream City. Her work was included in a 1999 exhibition at the Yale University Art Gallery titled Postmodern Transgressions: Art Beyond the Frame, and has been exhibited at the Cline Fine Art, Santa Fe, New Mexico; the Adair Margo Gallery, El Paso, Texas; and the Art Museum of South Texas, Corpus Christi, Texas.
3193 Isa Melsheimer: Vermilion Sands and Other Stories from the Neon West is a never-before-seen installation that explores Hollywood s cinematic heyday and its motion picture icons, investigating notions of glamour and luxury as they relate to characters, architecture, and locations in and around Los Angeles.Santa Monica Museum of Art Deputy Director Lisa Melandri is curator of Vermilion Sands and Other Stories from the Neon West, in which the artist utilizes commonplace, and largely domestic materials, to create site-specific environments, including a mixture of altered and embroidered t-shirts, live plants, paper, pearls, yarn constructions, and cast concrete sculptures.During a 2007 residency at Villa Aurora a nonprofit organization located in Pacific Palisades dedicated to German-American cultural exchange Melsheimer became interested in Los Angeles s landscape and architecture, as well as the fictional and historical characters that inhabit these spaces.Influenced by classic Hollywood films such as David Lynch s Mulholland Drive and Billy Wilder s Sunset Boulevard, and the stories of James Graham Ballard, Melsheimer examines the affects of architecture and location on Los Angeles s glamorized cinematic figures; as well as the demise of those figures from lifestyles of fame and financial success. Melsheimer is particularly drawn to examples such as the Salton Sea, a former glamorous resort area new Palm Springs that has since degenerated into a kind of wasteland, and the character Norma Desmond and her shabby mansion from Wilder s iconic film.With Vermilion Sands and Other Stories from the Neon West, Melsheimer wants viewers to be aware that architecture is always representative of ideas or subjects that permeate society. She asks viewers to consider: Which fictional and historical subjects are admired within Los Angeles? Why do residents emigrate from Los Angeles? What aesthetics characterize Los Angeles s buildings; and what sentiments manifest in the region s architecture?Some content may be deemed inappropriate for younger viewers.Support for Isa Melsheimer: Vermilion Sands and Other Stories from the Neon West has been provided in part by Institut fr Auslandsbeziehungen e.V.About the artist:Melsheimer (b. 1968) was born in Neuss, Germany, and lives and works in Berlin. She attended the Hochschule der Knste (Academy of Fine Arts), Berlin, and completed a master class with painter Georg Baselitz.Melsheimer s work has been shown in solo exhibitions in museums and galleries throughout Europe, including in Paris at Galerie Jocelyn Wolff, in Nmes at Muse d Art Contemporain, in Vienna at Galerie Nchst St. Stephan, in Berlin at Esther Schipper Gallery, in Switzerland at Kunsthaus Langenthal, in Maastricht, Netherlands at Bonnefantenmuseum, and in Marfa, Texas at The Chinati Foundation. Melsheimer s work has also been presented in numerous group exhibitions, including in Chamarande, France, at Domaine Dpartemental de Chamarande, in Berlin at Kunsthalle Autocenter, in Copenhagen at the Institute of Contemporary Art, in Istanbul at BM SUMA Contemporary Art Center, in Mexico City at Museo Tamayo, and in Philadelphia at Cereal Art Project Room.
819 A survey spanning thirty years of production by one of the key figures in the Pattern and Decoration movement, Parrot Talk was organized by curator and writer Michael Duncan. MacConnel s paintings, sculptures, and collages explore the full range of contemporary visual culture, drawing on everything from Matisse to the Simpsons. Mixing high and low sources with abandon, MacConnel relishes the juxtaposition of modernist images and ideas with their sources in so-called primitive cultures. His works of the 1990s explore the wild mix in Third World countries of traditional artifacts and Western consumer detritus. Drawing on the Western traditions of painting and photography in conjunction with African house-painting patterns and Chinese schoolbook illustrations, MacConnel conjures a genuinely multicultural style.
452 Under Lock and Key, a multimedia video installation by Beth B, a New York film and video artist, explored themes of domestic and criminal violence. At the core of this exhibition was Amnesia, a painting, photographic, and video installation in which fascistic strategies of intimidation were appropriated in a scathing indictment of racism and other destructive attitudes. This exhibition originated at the Wexner Center for the Arts in Columbus, Ohio.
706 With Vacant Lot, a series of photographs of transitory spaces in the city of Los Angeles and throughout the United States, Alex Slade continued the exploration of mapping and topography evident throughout his work. The vacant lot is temporal real estate created by abandonment, loss, significance, and change. At first glance, Slade s site selection appears devoid of content, yet upon closer inspection these locations are full of meaning, charting the ebb and flow of financial fortunes, shifts in population, and dynamic and ephemeral histories of neighborhoods. His subjects are entropic places reflecting the natural world, built environment, and human dramas in their chaotic slides towards disorder.
5589 From January 24 to April 18, 2009, the Santa Monica Museum of Art presentsElias Sime: Eye of the Needle, Eye of the Heart, the first survey exhibition in the United States of one of Ethiopia s most original and prolific contemporary artists. The exhibition, co-curated by Meskerem Assegued, a revered Ethiopian curator and anthropologist, and visionary theater, opera, and multi-disciplinary arts impresario, Peter Sellars, is comprised of more than 100 works in a variety of mediums, scale, and forms. A highlight of the exhibition is a series of striking thrones made of leather, wood, mud and straw, which will be integrated into conductor Esa-Pekka Salonen s final Los Angeles Philharmonic concerts staged by Sellars in mid-April.Elias Sime: Eye of the Needle, Eye of the Heartwill be accompanied by a film by award-winning filmmakers Jonathan Dayton and Valerie Faris (Little Miss Sunshine) that will uniquely document the exhibition.Using yarn, plastics, tattered fabric, buttons, used plastic, and bottle tops, each of the collages and stitched canvases Sime creates forElias Sime: Eye of the Needle, Eye of the Heartrepresent a complete essay about the current state of his surroundings. Sime s three-dimensional sculptures are made with traditional organic Ethiopian building materials such as mud and straw, as well as wood, metal, and other found objects, gathered in part by neighborhood children.It was Sellars  passion for Sime s work that initially inspired SMMoA s executive director Elsa Longhauser to consider the idea of an exhibition of Sime s work. During their conversations, Sellars explained that Sime s thrones, designed to elevate and celebrate Ethiopia s street culture, so moved him that he was determined to feature the thrones in his production of Stravinsky sOedipus RexandSymphony of Psalms, Salonen s final concerts on April 16, 17, 18 and 19. Sime originally designed the thrones for Sellars  2006 New Crowned Hope Festival, a celebration of Mozart s 250th anniversary in Vienna, Austria.InElias Sime: Eye of the Needle, Eye of the Heart, the thrones make up part of the installation pieceMin Neber, a new iteration of a series of works in which Sime addresses the dignity, wisdom and depth of the ancient indigenous cultures that are rapidly disappearing from Ethiopia. Also, displayed in a semicircle around a small ceremonial table, the installation will include five wall sculptures, made from wood, cans, leather, and stitches, as well as a short, silent video installation documenting indigenous religious practices of small villages in Ethiopia. InMud and Straw, small mud and straw creatures take over the gallery space. A video installation documents Sime s construction of a Gota, the traditional grain storage container found in northern Ethiopia.BIOGRAPHIES:As a child, Elias Sime taught himself to sew, embroider, and repair furniture. He collected cast-off objects and materials, such as flattened tin cans, and fashioned them into his own creations. Today Sime still collects energetically plastic shopping bags in different colors, plastic shoes, horns from slaughtered cattle and buys some of the raw material for his work, such as buttons, at the Mercato, Addis Abeba s sprawling central market. Just as he gathers materials for making art from the markets and streets, Sim finds the themes for his works in the streets of Addis. He documents the lives and portraits of Ethiopians living in the Cherkos Gebeya, Legaehar and Chide Terra areas surrounding Addis Abeba, where he finds most of his working materials. Sime has deep connections with the communities he documents, in particular with the neighborhood children who bring him objects they collect from the street.Born in Cherkos, outside of Addis Abeba, Ethiopia, Sime graduated from Addis Abeba University s School of Fine Art and Design with a degree in graphic design. His practice focuses mainly on collages, stitches, and three-dimensional sculpture. Sime has had numerous solo shows, and has participated in many group exhibitions including the Studio Museum in Harlem, New York; Peter Sellars  New Crowned Hope in Vienna, Austria; the Dak Art Biennale 2004, in Dakar, Senegal; and the Zoma Contemporary Art Center and the National Museum in Addis Ababa. Sim lives and works in Addis Ababa.Peter Sellars, a director of opera, theatre and film, is renowned worldwide for his innovative treatments of classical material from western and non-western traditions, and for exploring the role of the performing arts in contemporary society and his commitment to spreading artistic vision to enact change. He has served as artistic director of the Los Angeles Festival, the American National Theatre at the Kennedy Center, the Boston Shakespeare Company and the Elitch Theatre for Children in Denver. Sellars is a professor in the department of World Arts and Cultures at UCLA, where he teaches Art as Social Action and Art as Moral Action. His past teaching positions include a visiting professorship at the Center for Theatre Arts at UC Berkeley. He resides in Los Angeles.Trained as an anthropologist, Meskerem Assegued is the curator and founder of Addis Abeba s Zoma Contemporary Art Center. In 2006, she curated Green Flame in Vienna, Austria, part of the New Crowned Hope Festival, in which Sime participated. Assegued has served as a selection committee of the 2004 Dak Art Biennale, one of the largest contemporary art exhibitions in the world. In 2007, Assegued was on the selection committee for the African Pavilion in the 52nd Venice Biennale. She lives in Addis Abeba.
395 This survey exhibition of contemporary Japanese art of the 1980s combined work by an older, established generation of artists painter Lee U-Fan, ceramist Kohshoh Itoh, and sculptor Makio Yamaguchi with the installation-based work of a younger generation of artists including Chie Matsui, Chu Enoki, and Toshihiro Kuno. Seven Artists was organized by Kazuo Yamawaki of the Nagoya City Art Museum.
601 Altered Egos presented work by artists who produce art under assumed names or who investigate the notion of hidden identities within their work. Unlike writers who simply adopt a pseudonym, these visual artists actually assume or appropriate another identifiable personality in their process of creating art. The exhibition, curated by the Santa Monica Museum s curatorial consultant Karen Moss, included work by Vernon Fisher, Maxine Henryson and Hunter Reynolds, Komar   Melamid, Charles LaBelle, Annabel Livermore, Theresa Pendlebury, Brian Tucker, Jan Tumlir and Kevin Sullivan, and Millie Wilson.
4109 I m not a photographer. I m an artist who uses photography when the idea dictates. And I think that s okay because I m also a performance artist who makes objects, or I m an object-maker who does performances. I think these labels are less important than the ability to go in the directions I d like for each work. - Martin Kersels in conversation with Ian Berry, Associate Director, The Frances Young Tang Teaching Museum and Art Gallery at Skidmore CollegeFrom September 13 to December 13, 2008, Santa Monica Museum of Art presentsMartin Kersels: Heavyweight Champion, the first retrospective of this influential and pioneering Southern California artist. Spanning the years from 1994 to 2007, the exhibition includes thirty-three multimedia artworks ranging from small sculptures, to large-scale photographs, to monumental installations. Kersels has long been esteemed in Southern California artistic and academic circles, and his work is in many collections worldwide. The advent ofHeavyweight Championmarks a timely opportunity for this 2008 Guggenheim Foundation Fellow to enjoy the broader recognition and respect his work and creative achievements so well deserve.Kersels is a long-time aficionado of Buster Keaton, and on first encounter, his artwork seems to exude a similar deadpan slapstick style, balancing the humorous with the wistfully awkward. On further study, this initial impression gives way to darker layers; the performances and works reveal what Kersels refers to as  wink-wink humor mixed with a tragic element.  Early pieces, including the large-scale photographic series of Kersels falling, tripping, tossing people, and being smacked with assorted objects, find the artist experimenting with the creative possibilities of his 6-foot, 7-inch, 350 lb. frame. But the trajectory of Kersels  career as illuminated inHeavyweight Championclearly indicates that he is not a single-issue artist; he is not, in the words of Ian Berry  the body-issue guy.  Particularly in his later work, the artist has gone in more conceptual directions, to explore themes of scale, time, space, sound, and gravity.Highlights ofHeavyweight Championinclude the monumental installationDionysian Stage(2004-2005), a 14-foot-diameter nest that spins like an enormous, natural disco ball, and incorporates all manner of homey, domestic debris in its woven willow branches. The work evolved from Kersels  interest in utilizing traditional craft in nontraditional ways, and from his study in Sweden and Denmark with master craftspeople.Rickety(2007), the artist s latest work, is a sculpture that compresses and oppresses furniture and other oversized objects beneath a platform. This lower, slightly topsy-turvy world stands in sharp contrast to the clean openness of the top part of the installation. While some of the other sculptures in the exhibition act as surrogates for Kersels  physical being,Ricketyis about the experience of the trials and tribulations of navigating a large body through the world.An engaging range of programming accompaniesHeavyweight Champion, beginning with a performance by the electrifying jazz/punk/blues band Puttanesca on Friday, September 12, the opening night of the exhibition. The concert will take place atopRickety. Puttanesca s charismatic vocalist Weba Garretson was, along with Kersels, a member of the performance troupe SHRIMPS, which played a pivotal role in Kersels  development as an artist. Subsequent programming includesHeavyweight Lecture Musicale(Tuesday, September 23), Kersels  discussion of his work utilizing visual materials, songs, music, and dance, followed by a Q A with the artist; and the dance recitalHuh?, choreographed by Melinda Ring specifically for the exhibition, and performed throughoutRickety(Friday and Saturday, November 14 and 15).Heavyweight Championis accompanied by a full-color catalog illustrating the scope of the artist s work. The publication includes an interview with Martin Kersels by Ian Berry, Associate Director at The Frances Young Tang Teaching Museum and Art Gallery at Skidmore College, where the exhibition debuted.
503 Garouste s large-scale acrylic paintings were created on panels of linen that recalled the textile materials used beginning in the Middle Ages and known in seventeenth and eighteenth-century Europe as  indiennes.  The exhibition also featured a selection of the artist s bronze sculptures and smaller works in watercolor. Curated by Marie Claude-Beaud, founder and Director of the Cartier Foundation for Contemporary Art, Les Indiennes was the first one-person show of Garouste s work on the West Coast.
1079 Sharon Levy s interest in the sublime qualities of the forest and in wood as a medium has led her to craft sculptures of trees in various stages of life and death. ForThe Wood, Levy created a site-specific installation   a poignant fairytale forest evoking wonder, surprise, and pathos.Cookie, the centerpiece of the installation, appeared to be sliced from a giant tree. Made from two canvases stretched on a circular frame, surrounded by foam rubber painted to resemble bark,Cookietowered at nine feet in diameter, dwarfing the viewer.Cookie spainstakingly painted growth rings represented both the tree s age and the duration of the artist s process.The Woodalso includedYoung Pines, two clusters of tree silhouettes with articulated branches jigsaw-cut from pine plywood: a manufactured material returning to its original form. Levy built many of her trees using construction techniques borrowed from theater props, tents, toys, and  knock-down  furniture; she delights in the irony inherent in creating portable, artificial props to represent such venerable natural objects.
4245 The Dark Lining, Marco Brambilla s first solo museum exhibition, features seven major time-based works from 1999 to the present. Brambilla s oeuvre consists of complex video installations. Much of his work comprises found film footage edited, layered, and spliced to create compelling new narratives and stunning visual mosaics. With exquisite technical production and seamless editing, Brambilla s multi-layered tableaux of interconnecting images and looped video blend into an expansive landscape that forms his hallmark style.The exhibition at SMMoA will feature the premier of Evolution (Megaplex), 2010, a new large-scale 3D video collage, which displays the history of humankind through the lens of cinema. In this never before seen work, Brambilla combines hundreds of clips from genre films that re-enact historical moments as grand spectacle. This cacophony of images is looped and mapped into an infinite three-dimensional environment that scrolls horizontally across time. Evolution emphasizes conflicts through the ages, in a remix that seamlessly moves through past, present, and future, providing a satirical take on the bombast of the big-budget  epic. In a poignant work from 2002 titled HalfLife, Brambilla juxtaposes surveillance footage of gamers playing the then-popular video game Counter-Strike with live-feed footage of the game they are playing. By placing the young men in the  cross-hairs  point-of-view while simultaneously capturing their virtual actions inside the game-world, Brambilla highlights the physical displacement and the psychological dislocation inherent in entering the digital world.Cathedral, 2008, in which Brambilla filmed Christmas shoppers in a Canadian mall, exposes raw footage in a long and slow sequence of kaleidoscopic patterning. The superimposed and multi-layered images transform the mall into a hallucinatory space. Though it resembles an animated stained glass window, the work depicts commerce and conspicuous consumption, and the conflation of a  shoppers  paradise  with a literal place of worship.Brambilla s Civilization (Megaplex), 2008, is dense with imagery and depicts heaven, hell, and in-between, in an epic, almost Dante-esque style, set to an excerpt from Stravinsky s Rite of Spring. His first  video mural  integrates clips into an expansive landscape that continuously scrolls downward, starting with the fires of hell, progressing through to celestial reward. Other works in the exhibition include Wall of Death, 2001; Sync, 2005; and Sea of Tranquility, 2006.The ambitious installation design of The Dark Liningwill mirror Brambilla s complex visual arrangements where the viewer is led, almost transported, from singular, theater-like stations to open spaces where multiple works present themselves in layered concert with one another. The exhibition at SMMoA is unique from previous installations as this will present multiple significant works from the last decade and illustrate Brambilla s artistic range and evolution. The exhibition itself, therefore, will function as an artwork one that is revealed with the audience s choreographed movement through a well-orchestrated and articulated space.Marco Brambilla studied film at Ryerson University, Toronto, Canada, and then worked in commercials and feature films, directing the successful 1993 science fiction film Demolition Man. In 1998, he shifted his focus to video and photography projects as an artist and filmmaker. His work has been exhibited internationally at such institutions as the Kunsthalle Bern, screened at the Sundance and Cannes film festivals, and can be found in the permanent collections of the Guggenheim Museum, the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, the New Museum of Contemporary Art, and the ARCO Foundation in Madrid, amongst others. Brambilla has been awarded both the Tiffany Comfort Foundation and Colbert Foundation awards for his video installations. He was born in Milan, Italy, and currently lives and works in New York and Los Angeles.Major support for this exhibition has been provided by The Chaney Family Collection, Beth Rudin DeWoody, and Liz Swig. Additional support has been provided by HSI Productions and The Suzanne Nora Johnson and David Gordon Johnson Foundation.
642 For the site-specific installation, Grow Room, Virgil Marti, in his first solo West Coast exhibition, covered the walls of the Project Room with ornately flowered and stylized web patterns printed on highly reflective Mylar sheets a material often associated with growing marijuana in hydroponic gardens. Marti transformed the raw interior of the space into a hypnotic cocoon in the historic tradition of a Rococo hall of mirrors. Within this luxurious, glowing rec room environment, Marti suspended an enormous cast-resin chandelier that was part antler, part flower, subverting virile hunting lodge sensibilities by way of Marie Antoinette.
439 Los Angeles-based artist Eduardo Sarabia intertwined fact, fiction, family history, and the search for Pancho Villa s gold in his installation in the museum s Project Room. Sarabia s potent installation examined the many guises of Mexico s political identity, from the romantic to the corrupt, and explored the artist s own Mexican roots and his relationship to East Los Angeles, where he grew up. Ciara Ennis guest-curated the exhibition.
414 Artist s acknowledgements and thanks to: The Getty Research Institute, Research Library/photo collection; Julius Shulman photography of Neutra s Kronish House; The friends of the Schindler House; The City of Los Angeles and Barnsdall Art Park; Friends of the Hollyhock House; Joshua White photography of Lautner s Beyer House; Special effects: Maya Zuckerman; Matthew Klein Media; and Edward Cella Art+Architecture
845 Unlike her contemporaries, the Viennese Actionists, the seminal Austrian artist VALIE EXPORT created distinctly feminist works intended to provoke social change and to overturn prevailing attitudes towards women. Her early performance art demanded the involvement of the audience on a visceral level. She used her body as a medium as a challenge to erotic hypocrisy, as a way of perceiving and codifying information, and as a means to counter the horrifying political realities of the past. This exhibition presented a thirty-year survey of photographs and videos documenting VALIE EXPORT s early performance works, digital and conceptual photography, expanded cinema, large-scale video installations, and films. Ob/De+Con(Struction) was organized by Elsa Longhauser for the Goldie Paley Gallery at Moore College of Art and Design, Philadelphia.
4109 I m not a photographer. I m an artist who uses photography when the idea dictates. And I think that s okay because I m also a performance artist who makes objects, or I m an object-maker who does performances. I think these labels are less important than the ability to go in the directions I d like for each work. - Martin Kersels in conversation with Ian Berry, Associate Director, The Frances Young Tang Teaching Museum and Art Gallery at Skidmore CollegeFrom September 13 to December 13, 2008, Santa Monica Museum of Art presentsMartin Kersels: Heavyweight Champion, the first retrospective of this influential and pioneering Southern California artist. Spanning the years from 1994 to 2007, the exhibition includes thirty-three multimedia artworks ranging from small sculptures, to large-scale photographs, to monumental installations. Kersels has long been esteemed in Southern California artistic and academic circles, and his work is in many collections worldwide. The advent ofHeavyweight Championmarks a timely opportunity for this 2008 Guggenheim Foundation Fellow to enjoy the broader recognition and respect his work and creative achievements so well deserve.Kersels is a long-time aficionado of Buster Keaton, and on first encounter, his artwork seems to exude a similar deadpan slapstick style, balancing the humorous with the wistfully awkward. On further study, this initial impression gives way to darker layers; the performances and works reveal what Kersels refers to as  wink-wink humor mixed with a tragic element.  Early pieces, including the large-scale photographic series of Kersels falling, tripping, tossing people, and being smacked with assorted objects, find the artist experimenting with the creative possibilities of his 6-foot, 7-inch, 350 lb. frame. But the trajectory of Kersels  career as illuminated inHeavyweight Championclearly indicates that he is not a single-issue artist; he is not, in the words of Ian Berry  the body-issue guy.  Particularly in his later work, the artist has gone in more conceptual directions, to explore themes of scale, time, space, sound, and gravity.Highlights ofHeavyweight Championinclude the monumental installationDionysian Stage(2004-2005), a 14-foot-diameter nest that spins like an enormous, natural disco ball, and incorporates all manner of homey, domestic debris in its woven willow branches. The work evolved from Kersels  interest in utilizing traditional craft in nontraditional ways, and from his study in Sweden and Denmark with master craftspeople.Rickety(2007), the artist s latest work, is a sculpture that compresses and oppresses furniture and other oversized objects beneath a platform. This lower, slightly topsy-turvy world stands in sharp contrast to the clean openness of the top part of the installation. While some of the other sculptures in the exhibition act as surrogates for Kersels  physical being,Ricketyis about the experience of the trials and tribulations of navigating a large body through the world.An engaging range of programming accompaniesHeavyweight Champion, beginning with a performance by the electrifying jazz/punk/blues band Puttanesca on Friday, September 12, the opening night of the exhibition. The concert will take place atopRickety. Puttanesca s charismatic vocalist Weba Garretson was, along with Kersels, a member of the performance troupe SHRIMPS, which played a pivotal role in Kersels  development as an artist. Subsequent programming includesHeavyweight Lecture Musicale(Tuesday, September 23), Kersels  discussion of his work utilizing visual materials, songs, music, and dance, followed by a Q A with the artist; and the dance recitalHuh?, choreographed by Melinda Ring specifically for the exhibition, and performed throughoutRickety(Friday and Saturday, November 14 and 15).Heavyweight Championis accompanied by a full-color catalog illustrating the scope of the artist s work. The publication includes an interview with Martin Kersels by Ian Berry, Associate Director at The Frances Young Tang Teaching Museum and Art Gallery at Skidmore College, where the exhibition debuted.
133 A dance piece choreographed by Davidow and performed by the Pacific Dance Ensemble took place around and within Williams s sculpture.
940 event_descriptionMarking the first Southern California museum exhibition for Richard Carter and Margaret Pezalla-Granlund, Iceberg presented two independent bodies of work about a topic that has long captivated artists. Carter s paintings and drawings of icebergs ranged in size from small to monumental and revealed the haunting beauty, dramatic sculptural quality, and unique character of individual icebergsfrom the poetic and atmospheric to the stark and foreboding. Pezalla-Granlund s iceberg sculptures, formed from paper and foam core, were fragile and irregular, lightweight and easily crushedin purposeful opposition to their real-world counterparts. Suspended from the ceiling, five icebergs of various dimensions floated flat side up with their asymmetrical, jutting edges extending towards the floor. In the intimate space of Project Room 1, the two treatments resonated to immerse the viewer in the awe and mystery of icebergs.
899 Hugh Pocock s work investigates the history and metaphor of human relationships with natural resources, space, time, art, and language, often representing what he terms  an expression of involvement with intense labor and the dynamics of nature.  For the site-specific installation This Garden making salt and evaporation drawings, Pocock placed 180 gallons of seawater from the Santa Monica Bay in a specially cast, shallow concrete pond, then employed solar-powered lights and fans to evaporate the seawater and leave behind a salt crystal residue. Throughout the exhibition, the salt was regularly harvested and the pond refilled; salt was available for visitors to taste. Pocock used a large-scale pencil drawing to chart and display atmospheric changes in the museum and the levels of natural evaporation of the seawater, and a projection of photographs documented the water collection process.
4779 Mickalene Thomas: Origin of the Universeisthe first major solo museum exhibition for the New York-based multi-media artist. Best known for her elaborate paintings of African American women against the backdrop of dcor recalled from her childhood, Thomas has created an all-new suite of works that examine aspects of landscape painting. She introduces a new model of trans-generational female empowerment as she explores interior and exterior environments in relation to the female figure. The exhibition opens at SMMoA on April 14, 2012 and continues through August 18, 2012. It will then travel to the Brooklyn Museum for display from September 28, 2012 to January 20, 2013.Thomas is best known for her bold enamel and acrylic paintings adorned with rhinestones, glitter, and  bling.  Her subjects seem to have stepped directly from a 1970s Blaxploitation film, yet Thomas s influences extend far beyond. Her oeuvre stems from her long study of art history and the classical genres of portraiture, landscape, and still life. Thomas s layeredfactureprocess begins with a photographic portrait that is translated into a collage, and ultimately reenvisioned as a painting. Her imagery comprises careful borrowings from art history and from contemporary popular culture.ForOrigin of the Universe, Thomas examines art historical constructs of feminine identity, sexuality, beauty, and power in 15 works in a variety of sizes, shapes, and media. Taking cues from Marcel Duchamp stant Donns: 1 la chute d eau, 2 le gaz d clairage(Given: 1.The Waterfall, 2.The Illuminating Gas) and Gustave Courbet s L Origine du Monde (The Origin of the World), Thomas presents the female figure as the origin of the universe, focusing on how the female body both engenders and inhabits landscape. The works on view are in communication with one another portraits of Qusuquzah and Din gaze out at modernist interiors and plein-air landscapes, all confronted by the artist s arresting recreations of Courbet s Origin.In nineteenth-century visual culture, black female sexuality functioned as something to be rejected or disparaged, but Thomas reconfigures these historical tropes into contemporary statements of empowerment. By casting African American women as the  heroines  of her works, she makes a profound statement regarding gender and racial identity. Thomas s dialogue with Courbet and Duchamp is a strong reclamation of history, reasserting the subjective nature of beauty. In addition to her paintings and photographs, she will create an installation in SMMoA s Project Room 1, to reinventtant Donns, where the  peep show  reveals the true surprise of a 70s-style paneled interior in the place of Duchamp s splayed female body.Some content may be deemed inappropriate for younger viewers.Mickalene Thomas was born in 1971. She earned a Bachelor s of Fine Arts degree from Pratt Institute and a Master s of Fine Arts from Yale University. She has participated in residency programs at the Versailles Foundation Munn Artists Program, Giverny, France, and the Studio Museum in Harlem, New York. Her work has been shown in group exhibitions at the Museum of Contemporary Art Detroit, The Renaissance Society, Chicago, and MoMA PS1, New York, and is included in the important collections of the Museum of Modern Art, New York; the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, New York; the National Portrait Gallery, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C. the Whitney Museum of American Art, New York; the Art Institute of Chicago; The Museum of Fine Arts Boston; and the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art.Mickalene Thomas: Origin of the Universeis organized by the Santa Monica Museum of Art; SMMoA Deputy Director Lisa Melandri is the exhibition curator. The exhibition will be accompanied by a series of free, engaging public programs and a full-color, illustrated catalog published by SMMoA and distributed by DAP. The publication includes an interview with the artist by Melandri; an essay that contextualizes Thomas s work by writer/curator Sarah Lewis, Professor at Yale University School of Art; and an in-depth investigation of Thomas s nineteenth-century influences by scholar Denise Murrell,a 2011 PhD Dissertation Fellow at Reid Hall of Columbia University in Paris.Generous support for this exhibition has been provided by The National Endowment for the Arts, Lehmann Maupin Gallery, New York, The Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts, and Susanne Vielmetter Los Angeles Projects. Additional support has also been provided by the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors through the Los Angeles County Arts Commission and Janine and Lyndon Barrois. All images  Mickalene Thomas, Lehmann Maupin Gallery, New York, and Susanne Vielmetter Los Angeles Projects, Photo: Christopher Burke Studio
816 lvaro Siza/Architect: Drawings, Models, Photographs was the first museum survey in the United States to explore the visionary fifty-year career of preeminent Portuguese architect and Pritzker Prize winner lvaro Joaquim de Meio Siza Vieira. Designed by Siza himself, the exhibition comprised technical drawings, photographs, models, floor plans, and elevations for five major projects Mrio Bahia House, Gondomar, Portugal (1983); Water Tower, Aveiro, Portugal (1988-1989); Santa Maria Church, Marco de Canaveses, Portugal (1990-1996); The Serpentine Gallery Pavilion in collaboration with Eduardo Souto de Moura, London, England (2005); and Iber Camargo Foundation, Porto Alegre, Brazil (1998-2006). The exhibition also featured forty original travel sketches, highlighting Siza s extraordinary talent as a draftsman.
5589 From January 24 to April 18, 2009, the Santa Monica Museum of Art presentsElias Sime: Eye of the Needle, Eye of the Heart, the first survey exhibition in the United States of one of Ethiopia s most original and prolific contemporary artists. The exhibition, co-curated by Meskerem Assegued, a revered Ethiopian curator and anthropologist, and visionary theater, opera, and multi-disciplinary arts impresario, Peter Sellars, is comprised of more than 100 works in a variety of mediums, scale, and forms. A highlight of the exhibition is a series of striking thrones made of leather, wood, mud and straw, which will be integrated into conductor Esa-Pekka Salonen s final Los Angeles Philharmonic concerts staged by Sellars in mid-April.Elias Sime: Eye of the Needle, Eye of the Heartwill be accompanied by a film by award-winning filmmakers Jonathan Dayton and Valerie Faris (Little Miss Sunshine) that will uniquely document the exhibition.Using yarn, plastics, tattered fabric, buttons, used plastic, and bottle tops, each of the collages and stitched canvases Sime creates forElias Sime: Eye of the Needle, Eye of the Heartrepresent a complete essay about the current state of his surroundings. Sime s three-dimensional sculptures are made with traditional organic Ethiopian building materials such as mud and straw, as well as wood, metal, and other found objects, gathered in part by neighborhood children.It was Sellars  passion for Sime s work that initially inspired SMMoA s executive director Elsa Longhauser to consider the idea of an exhibition of Sime s work. During their conversations, Sellars explained that Sime s thrones, designed to elevate and celebrate Ethiopia s street culture, so moved him that he was determined to feature the thrones in his production of Stravinsky sOedipus RexandSymphony of Psalms, Salonen s final concerts on April 16, 17, 18 and 19. Sime originally designed the thrones for Sellars  2006 New Crowned Hope Festival, a celebration of Mozart s 250th anniversary in Vienna, Austria.InElias Sime: Eye of the Needle, Eye of the Heart, the thrones make up part of the installation pieceMin Neber, a new iteration of a series of works in which Sime addresses the dignity, wisdom and depth of the ancient indigenous cultures that are rapidly disappearing from Ethiopia. Also, displayed in a semicircle around a small ceremonial table, the installation will include five wall sculptures, made from wood, cans, leather, and stitches, as well as a short, silent video installation documenting indigenous religious practices of small villages in Ethiopia. InMud and Straw, small mud and straw creatures take over the gallery space. A video installation documents Sime s construction of a Gota, the traditional grain storage container found in northern Ethiopia.BIOGRAPHIES:As a child, Elias Sime taught himself to sew, embroider, and repair furniture. He collected cast-off objects and materials, such as flattened tin cans, and fashioned them into his own creations. Today Sime still collects energetically plastic shopping bags in different colors, plastic shoes, horns from slaughtered cattle and buys some of the raw material for his work, such as buttons, at the Mercato, Addis Abeba s sprawling central market. Just as he gathers materials for making art from the markets and streets, Sim finds the themes for his works in the streets of Addis. He documents the lives and portraits of Ethiopians living in the Cherkos Gebeya, Legaehar and Chide Terra areas surrounding Addis Abeba, where he finds most of his working materials. Sime has deep connections with the communities he documents, in particular with the neighborhood children who bring him objects they collect from the street.Born in Cherkos, outside of Addis Abeba, Ethiopia, Sime graduated from Addis Abeba University s School of Fine Art and Design with a degree in graphic design. His practice focuses mainly on collages, stitches, and three-dimensional sculpture. Sime has had numerous solo shows, and has participated in many group exhibitions including the Studio Museum in Harlem, New York; Peter Sellars  New Crowned Hope in Vienna, Austria; the Dak Art Biennale 2004, in Dakar, Senegal; and the Zoma Contemporary Art Center and the National Museum in Addis Ababa. Sim lives and works in Addis Ababa.Peter Sellars, a director of opera, theatre and film, is renowned worldwide for his innovative treatments of classical material from western and non-western traditions, and for exploring the role of the performing arts in contemporary society and his commitment to spreading artistic vision to enact change. He has served as artistic director of the Los Angeles Festival, the American National Theatre at the Kennedy Center, the Boston Shakespeare Company and the Elitch Theatre for Children in Denver. Sellars is a professor in the department of World Arts and Cultures at UCLA, where he teaches Art as Social Action and Art as Moral Action. His past teaching positions include a visiting professorship at the Center for Theatre Arts at UC Berkeley. He resides in Los Angeles.Trained as an anthropologist, Meskerem Assegued is the curator and founder of Addis Abeba s Zoma Contemporary Art Center. In 2006, she curated Green Flame in Vienna, Austria, part of the New Crowned Hope Festival, in which Sime participated. Assegued has served as a selection committee of the 2004 Dak Art Biennale, one of the largest contemporary art exhibitions in the world. In 2007, Assegued was on the selection committee for the African Pavilion in the 52nd Venice Biennale. She lives in Addis Abeba.
550 Alison Saar s work explores freedom and choice, apathy and resistance. The Museum presented Traveling Light, Topsy Turvey, and Compton Nocturne, three monumental sculptures made of wood and bronze, some incorporating sound and moving images. These figurative hybrids are both human and mythic, sometimes blurring the line between popular culture and ancient mythologies. This exhibition also marked the West Coast premiere of Tree Souls, a striking sixteen-foot-high sculpture made from real trees, which was exhibited at the Brooklyn Museum in 1996.
1490 Bruce Pollock: Circling Westis the artist s first solo museum exhibition and his West Coast debut. Pollock presents a series of seven 24   24  abstract oil paintings that are monochromatic explorations of a single subject matter. He has also created an expansive, site-specific wall drawing that offers a linear interpretation of the geometric scheme used in the paintings. Both the panoramic and the more compact works reveal the artist s fascination with mathematical systems and the recurring patterns and forms found in the natural world.Pollock animates the Project Room 2 space with fractal imagery, geometric structures, and circles, all in shifting levels of scale and density. The paintings are packed with ornate webs, honeycombs, and spirals, mimicking the logic of such organic forms as corals, mollusks, and plants. Each painting focuses on a limited color range; together the seven paintings comprise the spectrum of visible hues. The contrasting light and dark, warm and cool, and bright and dull color tones of these intense microcosms create the illusion of luminosity and deep space. The paint is applied in repeating fractal circles, producing shifting scales and intricate patterns that seem to change depending on the viewer s perspective. The wall drawing exudes a more free-flowing, outwardly directed energy. Its repeated system of patterns tumbles seemingly unimpeded towards all corners of the room, voraciously engulfing whatever surface it comes in contact with.
701 For Penetrable Vessels, Jill Bonovitz used the thinnest wire to create, in her words,  the edges of what s not there.  These intimate, ethereal, and personal vessel forms, at once intriguing and playful, reveal how the shapes between the wires are just as important as the wires themselves. Inspired by the random scribbles of her year-old grandchild and the intricate weaving of a spider s web, Bonovitz created a body of work that both embodies and defies the vessel form. She explored a range of aesthetic interests the process of drawing, the physicality of sculpted objects, and the translucency of materials that have engaged her over the past twenty-five years of working in porcelain and clay.
917 Kota Ezawa s work explores the appropriation and mediation of current events and images. He translates found film, video, and photographic footage into simplified drawings and animations that reduce complex imagery to its most essential, two-dimensional elements. For his slide installation On Photography, created specifically for the Santa Monica Museum of Art, Ezawa selected twenty images representing various examples from the history of photography from the 1860s to the present, and from the iconic to the unrecognizable, ranging in source from journalism, to performance documentation, to art photography. His choices were then manually traced, turned back into 35mm slide format, and projected on a continuous loop. Mimicking the feel of a university slide lecture, On Photography functioned as a visual critical essay, using digital drawings instead of words to explore and reveal the history of the medium.
8859 INCOGNITO, the Santa Monica Museum of Art s highly anticipated annual art exhibition and benefit sale, returned for its fifth year on Saturday, May 2, 2009. The element of surprise that underliesINCOGNITOreflects the essence of discovery that inspires SMMoA s exhibitions, education, and outreach programs. All proceeds directly support the museum, which in 2008 celebrated two decades of creative accomplishment. The annual benefit has raised nearly 1.25 million in its five-year history.Attendees from sophisticated art supporters to first-time collectors, artists, and art enthusiasts are encouraged to trust their instincts to guide their selections, as works are signed on the back and artist identities are revealed only after purchase.In 2009, nearly 700 art enthusiasts mingled among the 650 works from 500 artists the year saw an unprecedented level of participation from iconic and emerging artists from Los Angeles and worldwide. In honor ofINCOGNITO sfifth anniversary, John Baldessari designed an extraordinary logo that represents the spirit of this groundbreaking event.INCOGNITO2009 Participating Artists:Luciana Abait, Gerardo Yepiz Acamonchi, Reverend Ethan Acres, Robert Acuna, Lisa Adams, Nick Agid, Lynn Aldrich, Peter Alexander, Cynthia Alexander, Terry Allen, Rachel Allen, Jami Allen-Snyder, Sophia Allison, Marcos Alvarez, Fumiko Amano, Kathryn Andrews, Eleanor Antin, Carolyn Applegate, Edgar Arceneaux, Oliver Arms, Skip Arnold, Carla Arocha, Joshua Aster, Karen Atkinson, Atopia Architecture, Chad Attie, Donald Baechler, Hilary Baker, John Baldessari, Glen Baldridge, Judie Bamber, Mely Barragan, Ray Barrie, Slater Barron, Judith Barry, Gary Baseman, Dan Bayles, Martin Beck, Tina Beebe, Quinton Bemiller, Tom Benedek, Billy Al Bengston, Sharon Ben-Tal, Jodie Berry, Guillermo Bert, Mariella Bettineschi, Hisham Bharoocha, Joe Biel, Sanford Biggers, Enid Baxter Blader, Alvaro Blancarte, Daniel Bohbot, Lauren Bon, Jill Bonovitz, Derek Boshier, Janet Bothne, Mark Bradford, Leonardo Bravo, Calef Brown, Edgar Bryan, Jeremy Burleson, Bruce Busby, Luke Butler, Kristin Calabrese, Huguette Caland, Joshua Callaghan, Clayton Campbell, Giorgio Carlevaro, Barbara Carrasco, Karen Carson, Scott Marvel Cassidy, Carter Carter, Richard Carter, Jamison Carter, Cole Case, Carmela Castrejon, Enrique Castrejon, Jennifer Celio, Alida Cervantes, Exene Cervenka, Matt Chambers, Jamie Chan, Jeff Charbonneau   Eliza French, Fritz Chesnut, Mary Christiansen, Wayne Coe, Greg Colson, Matt Connors, Vanessa Conte, Michael Coughlan, Xavier Cazares Cortez, Erin Cosgrove, Lori Cozen-Geller, Steve Craig, Meg Cranston, Thomas Alan Cronk, Hugo Crosthwaite, Adam Davis, Jay Davis, Len Davis, Tony de Carlo, Raoul de la Sota, Mara De Luca, Michael Dee, Steve DeGroodt, Tony DeLap, Jane Dickson, Ann Diener, Laddie John Dill, Guy Dill, Abby Donovan, Mimi Drop, Sean Duffy, Barry Dukoff, Martin Durazo, Anna Dusi, Mark Dutcher, Mari Eastman, Ashley McLean Emenegger, Elizabeth Enders, Noah Erenberg, Samuel Erenberg, Carol Es, Marion Estes, Vidal Pinto Estrada, Ned Evans, Kota Ezawa, Mollie Favour, Diane Fenster, Carolyn Fernandez, Bruria Finkel, Chris Finley, Urs Fischer, Kim Fisher, Ed Flynn, Kianga Ford, Simone Forti, Andrew Foster, Bryan Freeny, Jona Frank, Terri Friedman, Gajin Fujita, Caroline Furr, Joe Fyfe, Francesca Gabbiani, Charles Gaines, Steve Galloway, Harry Gamboa, Jr., Corina Gamma, Charles Garabedian, Rico Gatson, Jordan Gaunce, Megan Geckler, Ana Marini Genzon, Lawrence Gipe, Milton Glaser, Michael Glier, Dan Goldman, Piero Golia, Marcelino Goncalves, Yolanda Gonzalez, Joe Goode, Michelle Grabner, Alexandra Grant, Cameron Gray, Phyllis Green, Matt Greene, Mark Steven Greenfield, Margaret Griffith, Johan Grimonprez, Gronk, Iva Gueorguieva, Raul Guerrero, Shane Guffogg, Jody Guralnick, Mary Addison Hackett, Lia Halloran, Nancy Jean Hancock, Lynn Hanson, Willie Harris, Kira Lynn Harris, Karen Harter, Doug Harvey, Edgar Heap of Birds, Deborah Hede, Matthew Heller, Roger Herman, Pixie Herms, George Herms, Carlos Hernandez, Katie Herzog, Matthew Higgs, Gilah Yelin Hirsch, Thomas Hirschhorn, Asuka Hisa, Richard Hoblock, Julian Hoeber, Loren Holland, Evan Holloway, Cadillac Holmes, Violet Hopkins, Channa Horwitz, James Howell, Darcy Huebler, Salomon Huerta, David Huffman, Sara Hunsucker, Dusadee Huntrakul, Jessica Hutchins, Eva Hyam, Charles Irvin, Mac James, Max Jansons, Ellen Jantzen, Michael Jantzen, Amparo Jelsma, Greg Jezewski, Vincent Galen Johnson, Matt Johnson, Sharon Kagan, Glenn Kaino, Yoichi Kawamura, Matt Keegan, Szajna Kellman, Mary Kelly, Arnold J. Kemp, Brian Kennon, Kristi Kent, Martin Kersels, Linda King, Kaitlin Kirker, Julie Kirkpatrick, Bill Kleiman, Patricia Knop, Alice Konitz, Olga Koumoundouros, Thomas Kovachevich, Joyce Kozloff, Marcus Kuiland-Nazario, Royce Kunze, Alan Kupchick, Suzy Lake, Julia Latane, Caroline Lathan-Stiefel, Evelyn Lauder, Mimi Lauter, Lauren Lavitt, Diane Lavoie, Brendan Leech, Tom Leeser, Max Lesser, Joshua Levine, Les Levine, Sharon Levy, John Oliver Lewis, Clarence Lin, Jed Lind, Chris Lipomi, Annabel Livermore, Jay Lizo, Karen Lofgren, William Longhauser, Mara Lonner, Renee Lotenero, Richard Louderback, Jean Lowe, John Luebtow, Heriberto Luna, Mela M., Kim MacConnel, Nancy Macko, Christina Madans, Monica Majoli, Constance Mallinson, Daniel Maltzman, Becca Mann, Daniel Marlos, Hudson Marquez, Luigia Martelloni, Virgil Marti, Jessica McCambly, Kim McCarty, Robin McCauley, David McDonald, Rodney McMillian, Christina McPhee, Blue McRight, Rob Mellor, Adrian Meraz, Gretchen Mercedes, Arnold Mesches, Sam Messer, James Miller, Brad Miller, John Miller, Adia Millett, Yunhee Min, Jason Miracle, Robin Mitchell, Bobbie Moline-Kramer, Nancy Monk, Lester Monzon, Dominique Moody, Angeles Moreno, Florian Morlat, Jim Morphesis, Rebecca Morris, Andy Moses, Ed Moses, Joshua Mosley, Avigail Moss, Carter Mull, Dave Muller, Thomas Muller, Manfred Muller, Doug Murphy, Hillary Mushkin, Tucker Neel, Geraldine Neuwirth, Kori Newkirk, Jessica Nicol, Margaret Nielsen, Leonard Nimoy, Danial Nord, Laurie Nye, Chris Oatey, Ruben Ochoa, Matthew Offenbacher, Lorcan O Herlihy, John Okulick, Chris Oliveria, Michael O Malley, Pat O Neill, Yoko Ono, Kaz Oshiro, Jamie Ruiz Otis, John Outterbridge, Simon Ouwerkerk, Jim Ovelmen, Edward Carlo Pacio, Rosieta Pardo, Jeanne Patterson, Ebony G. Patterson, Rene Peralta, Luciano Perna, Renee Petropoulos, Raymond Pettibon, Margaret Pezalla-Granlund, Francis Pezza, Paul Pitsker, Bruce Pollock, Nancy Goslee Power, Lori Precious, Astrid Preston, Stephanie Pryor, Rosamond Purcell, Michael Queenland, Bill Radawec, Elsa Rady, Leta Ramos, Mel Ramos, C.E.B. Reas, David Reed, Miles Regis, Marco Rios, Elwood T. Risk, Ron Rizk, Lynn Robb, John Robertson, Walter Robinson, Jennifer Rochlin, Steve Roden, Brett Cody Rogers, Michael Rosenfeld, Rachel Rosenthal, Rachel J. Roske, Adam Ross, Richard Ross, Erika Rothenberg, Melanie Rothschild, Daniel Ruanova, Allen Ruppersberg, Ed Ruscha, Eddie Ruscha, Jr., Alison Saar, Lezley Saar, Betye Saar, Julia Scher, Shirley Sacks, Souther Salazar, Gwen Samuels, Ruth San Pietro, Adrian Sanchez, Juliao Sarmento, Larry Scharf, Christoph Schmidberger, Lothar Schmitz, Michael Schnorr, Kim Schoen, Kim Schoenstadt, Allison Schulnik, Barbara Schwan, Josh Schweitzer, Chloe Sells, Shelter Serra, Marie Sester, Tom Shannon, Jim Shaw, Peter Shire, Fran Siegel, Justin Siegel, James Siena, Elena Mary Siff, Tif Sigfrids, Richard David Sigmund, Elias Sime, Case Simmons   Andrew Burke, Kristina Simonsen, Elizabeth Simonson, Francesco Siqueiros, Keith Sklar, Alex Slade, Rena Small, Barbara T. Smith, Joe Sola, Mariangeles Soto-Diaz, Alyson Souza, Brad Spence, Jeni Spota, Zachary Stadel, Ricky Swallow, Randi Malkin Steinberger, Jennifer Steinkamp, Coleen Sterritt, Mary Clare Stevens, Whitney Stolich, Don Suggs, May Sun, James Surls, Carl Swallow, Ricky Swallow, Ami Tallman, Henry Taylor, Stefon Taylor, Masami Teraoka, Anita Thacher, Mungo Thomson, Mark Todd, Ruben Ortiz Torres, IM Toth, Kerry Tribe, Melly Trochez, David Trulli, Devon T.S. Tsuno, Kim Tucker, Ike Ude, Carrie Ungerman, Miller Updegraff, Kaari Upson, Migdalia Valdes, Lesley Vance, Monique van Genderen, Alison Van Pelt, Jennifer Vanderpool, Ariane Vielmetter, Catherine Wagner, Keith Walsh, Gary Ward, Esther Pearl Watson, Mary Weatherford, Marnie Weber, Roger Weik, Ruth Weisberg, Eric Wesley, Brett Westfall, Benjamin White, Charlie White, Pae White, Patty Wickman, Cynthia Wiggins, Edward Walton Wilcox, William T. Wiley, Brian Wills, Steven Wolkoff, Eve Wood, Susan Woodruff, Miriam Wosk, Tom Wudl, Leslie Yagar, Rosha Yaghmai, Hiro Yamagata, Michiko Yao, Glbin Yavuz, Liat Yossifor, Kevin and Kent Young, Liz Young, Buzz Yudell, Christine Zelinsky, Jody Zellen, Sharon Zeugin, Bari Ziperstein, Kevin Zucker, Sarah Zwerling
3757 Inspired by the conceptual art exhibitionArt By Telephone(Museum of Contemporary Art, Chicago, 1969), in which participants phoned in their specifications for their works of art, artists Kim Schoenstadt and Rita McBride will exchange instructions to create their respective artworks in their first two-person U.S. Museum exhibition.Tell Me Something Good: A Collaboration between Kim Schoenstadt and Rita McBrideopens at the Santa Monica Museum of Art on September 12 and will be on view through December 5, 2009.The original 1969Art By Telephonewas curated by Jan van der Marck. Its basic premise was to invite international and out-of-state artists to phone instructions that would be executed bymuseum installers. Schoenstadt and McBride have created their  exchange  as a variation of the 1969 project, with each phoning the other with instructions for a work. At SMMoA, Schoenstadt will create McBride s work according to the instructions   photographs of all the gas stations along California Highway 1 between Los Angeles International Airport and Point Dume. McBride was asked by Schoenstadt to choose a discarded drawing from her studio and load it into a fax machine, then ask the Gallery to fax the floor plans of their proposed exhibition space. The combination of interposed drawing and architectural plan provided the final composition. This work was shown at New York gallery Alexander and Bonin from May 9 through June 13, 2009.The project takes up the  telephone game  idea of transforming visual information into language and back to visual, and also embraces the conceptual promise that  anyone  can make an art work based on the idea of the systemic production of art according to instruction. In the current era of instant messaging and social media, Schoenstadt and McBride use the telephone as a means of communication to initiate their conceptual works that explore the ramifications of what happens when an artist gives up control over his or her project. With its focus on collaboration and exploration of the nature of authorship, this exhibition is the perfect complement to the Allen Ruppersberg exhibition, which runs concurrently at SMMoA.Schoenstadt received a BFA from Pitzer College, California, and has participated in many solo and two-person exhibitions and projects in Europe and the U.S., including the Museum of Contemporary Art, Chicago, and the Institute of Contemporary Art, London. Her body of work centers around the exploration of drawing, and frequently includes series in which the final product is arrived at by chance or by instructions provided either via the audience or other artists; her works are often site-specific. Schoenstadt lives and works in Venice, California.McBride received a BA from Bard College, New York, and an MFA from California Institute of the Arts, Valencia. She is the recipient of many awards and residencies, including the prestigious Guggenheim Memorial Foundation Fellowship (2002). Her projects vary greatly from unorthodox books to large-scale sculptures. Her work has been shown at the SculptureCenter, New York, and she has had several solo museum exhibitions throughout Europe. McBride lives and works in Dsseldorf, Germany where she is a professor at the Kunstakademie Dsseldorf.The catalog accompanying the project is a recording of each artist s instructions on a vinyl record, just as it was for the original 1969Art By Telephone. The record will be playing in the Project Room as part of the installation; a limited edition of signed copies will be available for sale.Tell Me Something Good: A Collaboration between Kim Schoenstadt and Rita McBrideis organized by the Santa Monica Museum of Art and curator Lisa Melandri, Deputy Director for Exhibitions and Programs.
482 This exhibition focused on the work of James Carter,  outsider scientist  and author of The Other Theory of Physics. Drawing on Carter s self-published books and pamphlets rife with mathematical formulae, diagrammatic illustrations, and computer animations the exhibition explored Carter s alternative theory of the creation of the universe and his do-it-yourself vision of reality. Lithium Legs and Apocalyptic Photons was guest-curated by Margaret Wertheim and organized by SMMoA.
1163 This exhibition of contemporary art by Chicano, Irish, and Mexican artists examined the common ground shared by Mexico and Ireland, countries with notable differences as well as profound commonalities. Both countries have developed economically in the shadow of their more powerful neighbors (the U.S. and England); both are characterized by widespread migration; both share a strong tradition of Catholicism as well as deep roots in their ancient mythologies. Distant Relations revealed a rich, artistic dialogue about exile, invisibility, the loss of language and culture, a confrontation with the past, and the emergence of new hybrid cultures. This multimedia exhibition included the work of twelve internationally recognized artists: Willie Doherty, David Fox, Javier de la Garza, Silvia Gruner, Frances Hegarty, John Kindness, Alice Maher, Daniel J. Martinez, Amalia Mesa-Bains, Philip Napier, Rubn Ortiz Torres, and John Valadez. Curated by independent curator Trisha Ziff, Distant Relations was organized by the Ikon Gallery, Birmingham, England, and the Santa Monica Museum of Art. The accompanying catalog was published by Smart Art Press, Santa Monica.
475 Mogul s video diary of her travels to Poland, Czechoslovakia, and Yugoslavia during the summer of 1990, presented a within an installation that simulated her apartment in Warsaw, reflected her fascination with individuals living in extreme situations. Drawing on her affinity with the poetic irony prevalent in Eastern European art and literature, Mogul also presented an idiosyncratic and intimate conversational monologue based upon her three-month visit to Eastern Europe.
523 Collages Collages surveyed a series of thirty-six small-scale collages created by Los Angeles artist Roy Dowell over the course of one year, beginning in the summer of 1991. All of the images in the series are 6  9 inches and are composed of scraps of found paper used handbills, remnants of billboards, advertisements, and posters: the recycled detritus of everyday life. Using photo-based reproductions as source material, the artist s collages suggest meaning as a hybrid of popular culture and a lexicon of abstraction.
413 Roush s oblique series of discrete installations made reference to the interior and exterior structural realities of the Frank Gehry-designed museum. Building on the viewer s associations with interlinking and referential objects, and dealing with contrasting forms of transparency and light, Roush created an ineffable sense of magnitude and volume, allowing viewers to feel the ephemeral as a material presence.
429 Aldrich s installation interwove visual images, forms, and media to create a  flight school  addressing real, imaginary, and desired experiences of flying. Flying Lessons combined themes of bird flight or the  departure  of endangered bird species, human flight through technology, and supernatural flight embodied in notions of angelic beings in a multimedia installation that incorporated painting, sculpture, video, and music.
349 Rowe s multimedia installation used sculpture, sound, video, slide projections, text, and photography to recount the life of one  invisible woman.  The work questioned existence and the quality of existence as it reiterated the artist s interest in the many anonymous people in our society who live unnoticed by and  invisible  to those around them.
547 Using language both popular and literary Abby Donovan s sculptures probe how we  read  meaning. Donovan creates hand-wrought, heaped, and sometimes physically frail words and phrases out of such diverse materials as cloth, latex, clay, foam, and cement, affording the viewer an entirely new way of experiencing communication in general and words and phrases in particular. In Tick Tock, Donovan looked to sources from Cervantes to Kafka to physically reinvent language piling, stuffing reflecting, and sewing words in a surprising variety of ways.
901 Featuring a wide array of objects from the vast collections of life-long hoarder Ken Brecher, The Little Room of Epiphanies was an homage to the ephemeral, the overlooked, and the undervalued about not forgetting to look down, about slipping things into one s pocket, about finding treasure that has no worldly value except the power to change your life. Brecher, a social anthropologist by training and former museum director, has amassed an empire of objects that represent an idealized view of material culture a nonhierarchical world in which everything is considered and appreciated for its meaning and not its market value. Reflecting Brecher s life as an inveterate traveler, the trail of artifacts took us from his parents  bedside in Highland Park, Illinois, to the Mato Grosso in Brazil and the sand dunes of the Sahara. Epiphanies also included a video by Jonathan Dayton and Valerie Faris.
1568 Loren Holland s paintings lampoon assumptions about African American women. Her subjects are purposefully stylized to call attention to the way their real-life counterparts have been portrayed in the popular media as mysterious, exotic, sexual, even animalistic beings. Its title inspired by the Santana song of the same name,Black Magic Womandepicted three contemporary Santeria priestesses practicing in a spooky landscape filled with creeping mist. As with traditional representations of saints, each was surrounded by attributes. One, situated in a graveyard, conjured zombies with a nail-punctured human heart, poison from a blowfish, and the miraculous little blue pills that aid in raising the dead. Another, adopting the posture of someone who constantly works on a car in the street, turned her junker into a flourishing witch s garden. The last stood at her vanity, casting spells and hoping to capture the one she loves with the help of a voodoo doll, perfume, and face powder a combination of Chanel and Hershey s Cocoa. In all three cases, Holland fashioned images of creative, resourceful women whose magic is a metaphor for using everyday materials to make the proverbial silk purse from a sow s ear. Her lush and detailed figurative paintings are simultaneously literal and allegorical; they combine the eerie quality of nineteenth-century ghost stories with the visual language of a hip-hop music video. Black Magic Woman also alluded to a theatrical stage set, calling further attention to the artificial construction of the stereotypes it portrayed.
851 Action Station examined the subject of interactivity in contemporary art and the resulting dialogue between artist and viewer. The exhibition traced a growing trend among artists who invite the viewer to interact physically with their artworks by disassembling and reassembling them in myriad configurations. All the works presented were conceived by the artists to incorporate viewer interaction and participation: some of the works invited the viewer to decode a textual message; shake oversized, candy-colored papier-mch beach balls; and develop an alternative persona by trying on different garments. Organized by Sue Spaid, a freelance curator, Action Station included work by Terri Friedman, Joseph Grigely, Laura Howe, Lunna Menoh, and Carol Szymanski, as well as historically related Fluxus works by artists such as George Brecht and Yoko Ono.
408 Belgian video artist Grimonprez created an environment reminiscent of an airport lounge, complete with television monitors, coffee tables, extra-wide seating, and his version of INFLIGHT magazine. Including more than fifty videos of disaster movies, documentaries, and art films, the video library also featured dial H-I-S-T-O-R-Y, 1997 Grimonprez s sensational and critically acclaimed study of sky-jacking.
2732 The renowned artist s first career retrospective highlights his paintings from 1964 to 2007. While Hendricks has worked in a variety of media throughout his career, and has explored diverse subject matter, he is best known for his striking and provocative life-sized portraits of everyday African-American people from the urban northeast. Bringing to mind American realism, pop culture, and post-modernism in a way uniquely his own, Hendricks  pioneering contributions to African-American portraiture and conceptualism claims a compelling space somewhere between portraitists Chuck Close and Alex Katz, and African-American conceptualists David Hammons and Adrian Piper. At times cool, at times confrontational, sometimes sexually charged, and always empowering, the work reveals the artist s keen eye for his subject s attire, attitude, style, and point of view. Hendricks  groundbreaking body of work has both influenced and paved the way for many of today s generation of artists.Hendricks calls his camera his  mechanical sketchbook,  as many of his paintings are realized from photographs of people he encountered in daily life.Birth of the Coolis organized by Trevor Schoonmaker, Curator of Contemporary Art at thehttp://www.nasher.duke.edu/exhibitions_hendricks.phpin Durham, North Carolina.The exhibition catalog includes essays by Schoonmaker; Thelma Golden, Director and Chief Curator of the Studio Museum in Harlem; and Franklin Sirmans, Curator of Modern and Contemporary Art at the Menil Collection.Following its presentation at SMMoA, the exhibition will travel to the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts in Philadelphia, and the Contemporary Arts Museum in Houston. It was also shown at the Studio Museum in Harlem.Born in Philadelphia, the artist studied at the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts before receiving his B.F.A and M.F.A. at Yale University, where he studied with legendary photographer Walker Evans. He is currently a Professor of Art Studio at Connecticut College, in New London, Connecticut.Birth of the Cool has been named one ofVogue Magazine stop 25 cultural events of the year. The exhibition was organized by the Nasher Museum of Art at Duke University.This exhibition is sponsored in part by the Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts, Inc., the National Endowment for the Arts, which believes that a great nation deserves great art, the Mary Duke Biddle Foundation, and the North Carolina Arts Council with funding from the State of North Carolina.Support for the presentation at SMMoA is generously provided by the Peter Norton Family Foundation on behalf of Eileen Harris Norton. Additional support provided by Price Latimer Agah, Janine and Lyndon Barrois, and V. Joy Simmons, M.D.
376 Dialogue: Prague/L.A. was an international artistic exchange between a group of young artists from Czechoslovakia and California. During the first phase, in the summer of 1989, nine American artists went to Prague; during the summer of 1990, eleven Czech artists exhibited their work in Los Angeles at the Santa Monica Museum of Art, Otis/Parsons, and the Arroyo Arts Gallery.
742 Incognito, Santa Monica Museum of Art s first annual art exhibition and sale, was the most successful benefit in the museum s sixteen-year history. The line to get in began to form at 9:30 a.m.; VIP tickets sold out entirely; and when the doors opened, patrons flooded into the museum, purchasing art at an unprecedented rate. Sales continued briskly as the exhibition continued on Saturday.Incognito featured over 573 original works of art by 432 contemporary artists. The works created were in an identical 8  10 inch format and signed only on the back. All were for sale at 250; only after purchase were artist identities revealed. See all the works in Incognito by visiting the Incognito 2004 online catalog designed by Kristin Calabrese.
1781 Born in Tel Aviv, Israel, and now working in Paris, Arik Levy is an industrial designer who finds inspiration in the elements and natural forms.Levy has also created stage designs for contemporary dance and opera that illustrate his passion for space, exchange and the relationship to the body. His company L Design was founded with partner, graphic designer Pippo Lionni, and encompasses product development, packaging, signage, visual identity, lighting, store and interior design. Their strikingly creative projects in lighting and furniture are produced for Ligne Roset, LOreal, Boucheron, Renault, and Vitra.Levys work for SMMoAs Project Room consists of two flower-like chandeliers, one red, one blue, made of very thin fluorescent tubes and hanging from a long wire. These fragile, tiny, bulbs hang over a stainless steel table in the form of a log, reflecting off its facets the colored light of the chandeliers above.After attending Art Center Europe in Switzerland where he studied the history of design, Levy received a diploma in industrial design in 1991. He is also the winner of the Seiko Epson Inc. contest. Levy participated in the 2005 group exhibition at MoMA, Safe: Design Takes on Risk with his bulletproof jacket made from swan feathers, garnering accolades from within the international design community. As a designer, technician, artist, photographer, and filmmaker, Levys multi-disciplinary skills have been shown in prestigious galleries and museums worldwide, including Wright20 Gallery, Chicago; Moss Gallery, New York; Victoria   Albert Museum, London; Centre Georges Pompidou, Paris; the Israel Museum in Jerusalem; and the Museum of Modern Art in New York.Support for the exhibition is generously provided by The Philip and Muriel Berman Foundation.
4539 Al Taylor: Wire Instruments and Pet Stains is the first American survey of work by this important and prolific artist. The exhibition features two major series in Taylor s vast oeuvre: Wire Instruments (1989-1990) and Pet Stains (1989-1992). These distinctive bodies of work will illustrate the importance of Taylor s process and creative breadth.Taylor was born in Springfield, Missouri in 1948. He studied at the Kansas City Art Institute and moved to New York in 1970, where he lived and worked until his death at the age of 51 from lung cancer in 1999. Taylor worked for many years as studio assistant to Robert Rauschenberg (where he met his future wife Debbie) and was acquainted with such burgeoning luminaries as James Rosenquist, Cy Twombly, and Brice Marden. Although these relationships nourished Taylor s abundant talent, his future work was inspired but not defined by these friendships. Out of financial necessity, he scavenged art materials from the street. His connection with the commonplace which remained unpredictable and deep resulted in a body of work that is singular, inventive, and eloquent.Taylor began his studio practice as a painter in the seventies and early eighties. By 1985, however, he had developed a unique approach to process that encompassed a synergistic relationship between two-dimensional drawings and three-dimensional assemblages. Taylor s goal was to create a new way to experience and envision space; the works from this period helped him refine his investigations of visual perception across several dimensions.  Al felt that his work was research into vision,  says Debbie Taylor.  His work is really about looking, but he used everything around him. Seeing something could lead him to making one of these pieces, that could combine with something that he d read that morning, or with some music playing on the stereo, or with something on TV. Any of those things could inspire him. Taylor made no distinction between his three-dimensional constructions and his drawings. Dismissing the term  sculpture,  he preferred to see the 3-D work as  drawing in space.  Fashioned from such simple elements as wooden broomsticks, wire, carpentry remnants, and other ephemera, his constructions offer a multitude of distinct points of view. Taylor s drawings, in fact, often inspired the development of his three-dimensional works, which he created as an extension, in order to  see more.  Taylor remarked that  [the work] isn t at all about sculptural concerns; it comes from a flatter set of traditions. What I am really after is finding a way to make a group of drawings that you can look around. Like a pool player, I want to have all the angles covered. The drawings and constructions titled Wire Instruments show Taylor experimenting with the simplest variations of geometric form (especially the triangle). These fragile ink, pencil, and gouache drawings and wood and wire constructions have not been the focus of any previous exhibitions or scholarly investigation. Their simplicity and ephemeral beauty provide a poignant glimpse into Taylor s creative production.The body of work called Pet Stains (which includes Pet Stains, Pet Names, Pet Stain Removal Devices, and the Peabody Group) portrays sensuous, abstract imagery of drop-like puddles, formulated with toner, paint, or ink on paper. The constructions in this series are made from wood and Plexiglas that is dribbled and dripped with paint of every viscosity. In this series, Taylor transformed patterns of dog urine on an urban sidewalk into art. The playful ease and subtle humor of these works is apparent: various pee-stains are often tagged with imaginary names of the dogs/artists who made them Buddy, Norman, Getty, Goya, and Everready or, with a nod to Duchamp, given such titles as Puddle Descending a Staircase, and so on. Again, as in Wire Instruments, permutation and variation on the theme is integral to his process how many pet names, how many puddles of pee can he transform into nuanced drawings or quirky constructions.Wire Instruments and Pet Stains will include 47 works. Connie Butler, The Robert Lehman Foundation Chief Curator of Drawings at the Museum of Modern Art, will contribute a major essay to accompany the exhibition.Major support for the exhibition is generously provided by The Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts and The Audrey and Sydney Irmas Charitable Foundation. Additional support is provided by the Frederick R. Weisman Foundation, Susan and Leonard Nimoy, and David Zwirner, New York.
1781 Born in Tel Aviv, Israel, and now working in Paris, Arik Levy is an industrial designer who finds inspiration in the elements and natural forms.Levy has also created stage designs for contemporary dance and opera that illustrate his passion for space, exchange and the relationship to the body. His company L Design was founded with partner, graphic designer Pippo Lionni, and encompasses product development, packaging, signage, visual identity, lighting, store and interior design. Their strikingly creative projects in lighting and furniture are produced for Ligne Roset, LOreal, Boucheron, Renault, and Vitra.Levys work for SMMoAs Project Room consists of two flower-like chandeliers, one red, one blue, made of very thin fluorescent tubes and hanging from a long wire. These fragile, tiny, bulbs hang over a stainless steel table in the form of a log, reflecting off its facets the colored light of the chandeliers above.After attending Art Center Europe in Switzerland where he studied the history of design, Levy received a diploma in industrial design in 1991. He is also the winner of the Seiko Epson Inc. contest. Levy participated in the 2005 group exhibition at MoMA, Safe: Design Takes on Risk with his bulletproof jacket made from swan feathers, garnering accolades from within the international design community. As a designer, technician, artist, photographer, and filmmaker, Levys multi-disciplinary skills have been shown in prestigious galleries and museums worldwide, including Wright20 Gallery, Chicago; Moss Gallery, New York; Victoria   Albert Museum, London; Centre Georges Pompidou, Paris; the Israel Museum in Jerusalem; and the Museum of Modern Art in New York.Support for the exhibition is generously provided by The Philip and Muriel Berman Foundation.
533 Breaking Barriers included the work of more than 140 Los Angeles artists of diverse ethnic and geographical backgrounds, invited by the museum to contribute work relating to the changing social, political, and geographic boundaries of Los Angeles in the wake of the Rodney King verdict and ensuing civil unrest. Breaking Barriers provided a forum for artists to add their voices to those of civic leaders, the media, and politicians as they engaged in the process of analyzing the urban environment and the rebuilding of Los Angeles.

http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance
89
133 Kianja Strobert: Nothing to Do but Keep Going, Installation, 2012, Courtesy of the Santa Monica Museum of Art, Photo by Monica Orozco
92 Endangered Spaces, 2012, Installation view, Santa Monica Museum of Art, Photo: Monica Orozco
63 Adam Berg, Endangered Spaces, 2011, HD video diptych projection
128 Michael Queenland: Rudys Ramp of Remainders, Installation, 2012, Courtesy the Santa Monica Museum of Art, Photo by Monica Orozco
133 Kianja Strobert: Nothing to Do but Keep Going, Installation, 2012, Courtesy of the Santa Monica Museum of Art, Photo by Monica Orozco
112 Arik Levy, Fractal Cloud - 5 Units (red), 2008, Fluorescent light bulbs, 36  x 52  in., Photo courtesy of Wright
180 Nira Pereg, Sabbath 2008, Still, One channel high definition video with sound, 07:12 min., loop, Edition of 7, 16:0 PAL 2 Ch Stereo, Courtesy of Braverman Gallery, Tel Aviv, Israel
103 Daniel Cummings, Metro, 2009, Oil on canvas, 48 x 44 in., Courtesy of the artist and ACME., Los Angeles
153 Marco Brambilla, Cathedral, 2008, video still, Single-channel video installation, color, sound, 09:32 min., loop, Collection Fundacion Sorigue, Barcelona
159 Marco Brambilla, Sea of Tranquility, 2006,  Single-channel video, color, sound, 03:00 min., Courtesy of the artist and Christopher Grimes Gallery, Santa Monica
148 Isa Melsheimer, Nr. 292, 2012, Gouache and tread on paper, 42 x 56 cm, Courtesy the artist, Esther Schipper, Berlin and Gallery Jocelyn Wolff, Paris
70 Drawn from Memory, 1990, Installation view, Santa Monica Museum of Art
128 Michael Queenland: Rudys Ramp of Remainders, Installation, 2012, Courtesy the Santa Monica Museum of Art, Photo by Monica Orozco
90 The Donkey Show, 2011, Installation view, Santa Monica Museum of Art, Photo: Monica Orozco
162 Alberto Burri, Mold (Muffa), 1951, Oil paint and pumice stone on canvas, 28  x 31  in., The Art Institute of Chicago, Gift of Studs Terkel in memory of Ida Terkel
166 Mirella Bentivoglio, Reality and the Book (La realta e il libro), 1986, Mica and letraset, 2 pieces: 9 x 3  in. each, Pomona College Museum of Art, Gift of the artist
106 Agnes Denes, Design of the Universe, 1971, Fingerprinting ink, India ink on graph paper, 11 x 8 1/2 inches
96 Andrew Lord, Untitled, 2004, Ceramic, epoxy, silver leaf, 16  x 12 x 10  in., Private Collection
166 Agnes Denes: Body Prints, Philosophical Drawings, and Map Projections, 1969  1978, Installation, 2012, Courtesy the Santa Monica Museum of Art, Photo by Monica Orozco
92 Endangered Spaces, 2012, Installation view, Santa Monica Museum of Art, Photo: Monica Orozco
244 Agnes Denes, Napoleonic Series I: Investigation of World Rulers - Napoleon Overlooking the Elba, 1971, Fingerprinting ink, colored ink on graph paper, 10 1/4 x 17 1/8 inches, Courtesy the artist and Leslie Tonkonow Artworks + Projects, New York
148 Isa Melsheimer, Nr. 292, 2012, Gouache and tread on paper, 42 x 56 cm, Courtesy the artist, Esther Schipper, Berlin and Gallery Jocelyn Wolff, Paris
304 Al Taylor, The Peabody Group 32, 1992, Pencil, watercolor, gouache, ink and coffee on Lenox paper, 50 x 38 in., 127 x 96  cm., Signed and dated, verso: Al Taylor 92, Collection of the National Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C., Gift of Debbie Taylor, 2010, Estate of Al Taylor No. AT (D-92.116), TAYAL0542
108 Daniel Cummings: Recent Paintings, 2011, Installation view, Santa Monica Museum of Art, Photo: Monica Orozco
244 Agnes Denes, Napoleonic Series I: Investigation of World Rulers - Napoleon Overlooking the Elba, 1971, Fingerprinting ink, colored ink on graph paper, 10 1/4 x 17 1/8 inches, Courtesy the artist and Leslie Tonkonow Artworks + Projects, New York
90 The Donkey Show, 2011, Installation view, Santa Monica Museum of Art, Photo: Monica Orozco
87 Jeffrey Wells: Seeing While Seeing, 2010, Installation view, Santa Monica Museum of Art
77 Nira Pereg: Sabbath 2008, 2010, Installation view, Santa Monica Museum of Art
90 The Donkey Show, 2011, Installation view, Santa Monica Museum of Art, Photo: Monica Orozco
133 Kianja Strobert: Nothing to Do but Keep Going, Installation, 2012, Courtesy of the Santa Monica Museum of Art, Photo by Monica Orozco
224 Diana Thater, Greg, Josephine, Camera, 2010, 35mm production still, Between Science and Magic, looped 16mm film with sound, Commissioned by Santa Monica Museum of Art, Courtesy Hauser   Wirth, London, David Zwirner, New York
127 Vermilion Sands and Other Stories from the Neon West, 2012, Installation view, Santa Monica Museum of Art, Photo: Monica Orozco
60 Luca Pancrazzi, Formato, 1999, page view, Private Collection
149 Beatrice Wood, Career Womandrawings, paintings, vessels, and objects, 2011-2012,  Installation view, Santa Monica Museum of Art, Photo: Monica Orozco
169 Andrew Lord, river Spodden at Healey Dell, Whitworth, III, 2010, Plaster, burlap, beeswax, Edition of 3, 1AP, 28  x 27 x 14  in., Courtesy of Gladstone Gallery, New York
134 Project Room: Libro/Oggetto: Italian Artists Books, 1960sNow, 2010, Installation view, Santa Monica Museum of Art, Photo: Kelly Barrie
260 Marco Brambilla, The Dark Lining, 2011, Installation view, Santa Monica Museum of Art, Photo: Joshua WhitePictured: HalfLife (Surveillance Channel), 2002, detail,  Three-channel DVD, color, sound, 09:41 min., loop, Collection ARCO Foundation Collection, Madrid
141 Marco Brambilla, Civilization (Megaplex), 2008, video still, Single-channel video, color, sound, 03:00 min., loop, Private Collection, London
108 Daniel Cummings: Recent Paintings, 2011, Installation view, Santa Monica Museum of Art, Photo: Monica Orozco
84 Paper Dragons (Red Fans), Celestial Series, 2012, Tibetan wool, Chinese Silk, 8 x 10
90 The Donkey Show, 2011, Installation view, Santa Monica Museum of Art, Photo: Monica Orozco
51 Park Studio: Ring, 2010, Santa Monica Museum of Art
127 Vermilion Sands and Other Stories from the Neon West, 2012, Installation view, Santa Monica Museum of Art, Photo: Monica Orozco
92 Endangered Spaces, 2012, Installation view, Santa Monica Museum of Art, Photo: Monica Orozco
90 The Donkey Show, 2011, Installation view, Santa Monica Museum of Art, Photo: Monica Orozco
133 Kianja Strobert: Nothing to Do but Keep Going, Installation, 2012, Courtesy of the Santa Monica Museum of Art, Photo by Monica Orozco
204 Diana Thater: Between Science and Magic, 2010, Installation view, Santa Monica Museum of Art, Looped 16mm film with sound, Courtesy Hauser   Wirth, London, and David Zwirner, New York, Photo: Kelly Barrie
105 Daniel Cummings, Session, 2010, Oil on canvas, 21 x 24 in., Courtesy of the artist and ACME., Los Angeles
169 Andrew Lord, river Spodden at Healey Dell, Whitworth, III, 2010, Plaster, burlap, beeswax, Edition of 3, 1AP, 28  x 27 x 14  in., Courtesy of Gladstone Gallery, New York
62 INCOGNITO, 2010, Installation view, Santa Monica Museum of Art
87 Jeffrey Wells: Seeing While Seeing, 2010, Installation view, Santa Monica Museum of Art
113 Project Room 1: Arik Levy: Luminescence, 2010, Installation view, Santa Monica Museum of Art, Photo: Kelly Barrie
108 Daniel Cummings: Recent Paintings, 2011, Installation view, Santa Monica Museum of Art, Photo: Monica Orozco
134 Project Room: Libro/Oggetto: Italian Artists Books, 1960sNow, 2010, Installation view, Santa Monica Museum of Art, Photo: Kelly Barrie
56 Astrid Preston, Untitled, 2012, Oil on wood, 8  x 11 in.
200 Beatrice Wood, Blue Luster Double Necked Bottle with Braided Decoration, c. 1969, Earthenware, 11  x 8 x 6  in., Renwick Gallery of the Smithsonian American Art Museum, Gift of Dorothy and George Saxe
143 Andrew Lord, inside my mouth, 2010, Plaster, burlap, graphite, beeswax, 24 x 17 x 4 in., Courtesy of the artist and Gladstone Gallery, New York
128 Michael Queenland: Rudys Ramp of Remainders, Installation, 2012, Courtesy the Santa Monica Museum of Art, Photo by Monica Orozco
204 Diana Thater: Between Science and Magic, 2010, Installation view, Santa Monica Museum of Art, Looped 16mm film with sound, Courtesy Hauser   Wirth, London, and David Zwirner, New York, Photo: Kelly Barrie
70 Drawn from Memory, 1990, Installation view, Santa Monica Museum of Art
181 Nira Pereg, Sabbath 2008, Still, One channel high definition video with sound, 07:12 min., loop,  Edition of 7, 16:0 PAL 2 Ch Stereo, Courtesy of Braverman Gallery, Tel Aviv, Israel
108 Daniel Cummings: Recent Paintings, 2011, Installation view, Santa Monica Museum of Art, Photo: Monica Orozco
106 Beatrice Wood, Chalice, c. 1987, Earthenware, 9  x 9  in., Collection of Juliet Myers, Photo: Bill Stengel
140 Kianja Strobert: Nothing to Do but Keep Going, Installation detail, 2012, Courtesy of the Santa Monica Museum of Art, Photo by Monica Orozco
169 Andrew Lord, river Spodden at Healey Dell, Whitworth, III, 2010, Plaster, burlap, beeswax, Edition of 3, 1AP, 28  x 27 x 14  in., Courtesy of Gladstone Gallery, New York
125 Beatrice Wood, Career Women, 1990, Earthenware, 19  x 12  in., Collection of Dr. and Mrs. William P. Klein, Photo: Tony Cunha
204 Diana Thater: Between Science and Magic, 2010, Installation view, Santa Monica Museum of Art, Looped 16mm film with sound, Courtesy Hauser   Wirth, London, and David Zwirner, New York, Photo: Kelly Barrie
204 Diana Thater: Between Science and Magic, 2010, Installation view, Santa Monica Museum of Art, Looped 16mm film with sound, Courtesy Hauser   Wirth, London, and David Zwirner, New York, Photo: Kelly Barrie
159 Marco Brambilla, Sea of Tranquility, 2006,  Single-channel video, color, sound, 03:00 min., Courtesy of the artist and Christopher Grimes Gallery, Santa Monica
117 Mirella Bentivoglio, Histoire dO, 1985, Ink on stone, 4 x 2 x 1  in, Pomona College Museum of Art, Gift of the artist
133 Kianja Strobert: Nothing to Do but Keep Going, Installation, 2012, Courtesy of the Santa Monica Museum of Art, Photo by Monica Orozco
195 Agnes Denes, Isometric Systems in Isotropic Space: Map Projections - The Pyramid (The World from Below), 1978Gouache, Ink on vellum and Mylar, 24 x 30 inches, Collection of Alice and Nahum Lainer
84 INCOGNITO, 2011, Installation view, Santa Monica Museum of Art, Photo: Monica Orozco
148 Agnes Denes, Held, 1971, Fingerprinting ink on graph paper, 11 x 8 1/2 inches, Courtesy the artist and Leslie Tonkonow Artworks + Projects, New York
166 Agnes Denes: Body Prints, Philosophical Drawings, and Map Projections, 1969  1978, Installation, 2012, Courtesy the Santa Monica Museum of Art, Photo by Monica Orozco
271 Mickalene Thomas, Interior: Blue Couch with Green Owl, 2012, Rhinestones, acrylic, oil, and enamel on wood panel, 108 x 84 x 2 in., Collection of Michael Hoeh, New York, Courtesy of the artist, Lehmann Maupin Gallery, New York, and Susanne Vielmetter Los Angeles Projects
106 Agnes Denes, Design of the Universe, 1971, Fingerprinting ink, India ink on graph paper, 11 x 8 1/2 inches
128 Michael Queenland: Rudys Ramp of Remainders, Installation, 2012, Courtesy the Santa Monica Museum of Art, Photo by Monica Orozco
107 Georgi Tushev, Untitled (Strange Attractor), 2011, Watercolor on paper, 42 x 56 in., Courtesy of the artist
180 Nira Pereg, Sabbath 2008, Still, One channel high definition video with sound, 07:12 min., loop, Edition of 7, 16:0 PAL 2 Ch Stereo, Courtesy of Braverman Gallery, Tel Aviv, Israel
243 Beatrice Wood, Un peut (peu) deau dans du savon (A Little Water in Some Soap), 1917 (recreated 1976), Colored pencil, graphite pencil and soap on board, 11 x 8  in., Whitney Museum of American Art, Gift of Francis M. Naumann Fine Art, New York
103 Arik Levy, Log 206, 2008, Mirror-polished stainless steel, 17  x 81  x 31 in., Photo courtesy of Wright
101 Georgi Tushev, Untitled (Strange Attractor), 2010, Oil on canvas, 13 x 16 in., Courtesy of the artist
243 Beatrice Wood, Un peut (peu) deau dans du savon (A Little Water in Some Soap), 1917 (recreated 1976), Colored pencil, graphite pencil and soap on board, 11 x 8  in., Whitney Museum of American Art, Gift of Francis M. Naumann Fine Art, New York
195 Agnes Denes, Isometric Systems in Isotropic Space: Map Projections - The Pyramid (The World from Below), 1978Gouache, Ink on vellum and Mylar, 24 x 30 inches, Collection of Alice and Nahum Lainer
107 Georgi Tushev, Untitled (Strange Attractor), 2009, Oil on canvas, 10 x 14 in., Collection of Rudolf Stingel
114 Park Studio: Complex Elements, installation, 2012, Courtesy the Santa Monica Museum of Art, Photo by Monica Orozco
92 Endangered Spaces, 2012, Installation view, Santa Monica Museum of Art, Photo: Monica Orozco
181 Nira Pereg, Sabbath 2008, Still, One channel high definition video with sound, 07:12 min., loop,  Edition of 7, 16:0 PAL 2 Ch Stereo, Courtesy of Braverman Gallery, Tel Aviv, Israel

http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink
135
94 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/06/SMMoA_KellyBarrieMirrorHouse_byMonicaOrozco-1.jpg
62 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/06/12-2-img-0747.jpg
78 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/themes/smmoa/images/smmoa-print-template-logo.png
69 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/06/12-24-Isa-Melsheimer.jpg
68 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/06/Levy_red_cloudOnWeb.jpg
57 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/06/Levy_log.jpg
70 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/09/m-brambilla-evolution.jpg
78 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/themes/smmoa/images/smmoa-print-template-logo.png
78 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/themes/smmoa/images/smmoa-print-template-logo.png
70 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/06/12-mg-lapchi-pdragons.jpg
78 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/themes/smmoa/images/smmoa-print-template-logo.png
65 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/06/Italian_XT4X4310.jpg
71 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/06/2-Muffa_1951-copyOnWeb.jpg
78 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/themes/smmoa/images/smmoa-print-template-logo.png
56 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/08/MG_0611.jpg
70 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/10/Michael_Queenland-014.jpg
78 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/themes/smmoa/images/smmoa-print-template-logo.png
78 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/themes/smmoa/images/smmoa-print-template-logo.png
78 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/themes/smmoa/images/smmoa-print-template-logo.png
92 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/06/DonkeyShow_Installation_44_by-Monica-Orozco.jpg
78 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/themes/smmoa/images/smmoa-print-template-logo.png
78 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/themes/smmoa/images/smmoa-print-template-logo.png
78 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/themes/smmoa/images/smmoa-print-template-logo.png
78 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/themes/smmoa/images/smmoa-print-template-logo.png
78 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/06/Sea_of_Traquility_001LR_onweb.jpg
69 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/06/12-16-Isa-Melsheimer.jpg
92 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/06/DonkeyShow_Installation_25_by-Monica-Orozco.jpg
78 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/themes/smmoa/images/smmoa-print-template-logo.png
70 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/10/Michael_Queenland-182.jpg
73 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/06/2.Wadi-shadow-good_onweb.jpg
63 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/07/91-LindaRoush2.jpg
78 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/themes/smmoa/images/smmoa-print-template-logo.png
78 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/themes/smmoa/images/smmoa-print-template-logo.png
78 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/themes/smmoa/images/smmoa-print-template-logo.png
59 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/06/12-mg-9304.jpg
65 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/07/90-MeganWilliams.jpg
65 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/06/4.purple-x_onweb.jpg
69 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/06/1.Metro-shadow_onweb.jpg
92 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/06/river-Spodden-at-Healey-Dell-Whitworth-III1.jpg
69 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/06/12-28-a-little-water.jpg
69 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/06/Greg-Josephne-Camera.jpg
78 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/themes/smmoa/images/smmoa-print-template-logo.png
65 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/06/4.purple-x_onweb.jpg
78 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/themes/smmoa/images/smmoa-print-template-logo.png
78 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/themes/smmoa/images/smmoa-print-template-logo.png
91 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/06/DonkeyShow_Installation_7_by-Monica-Orozco.jpg
78 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/themes/smmoa/images/smmoa-print-template-logo.png
78 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/themes/smmoa/images/smmoa-print-template-logo.png
59 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/06/AL_O4W4136.jpg
69 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/07/90-DavidWojnarovicz2.jpg
78 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/themes/smmoa/images/smmoa-print-template-logo.png
59 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/06/AL_O4W4101.jpg
78 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/themes/smmoa/images/smmoa-print-template-logo.png
78 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/themes/smmoa/images/smmoa-print-template-logo.png
56 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/06/12-9115.jpg
81 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/06/3-Civilization-Hell-detail_onweb.jpg
68 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/10/Kianja_Strobert-007.jpg
78 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/themes/smmoa/images/smmoa-print-template-logo.png
56 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/09/Peabody.jpg
67 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/06/NP_sabbath_04OnWeb.jpg
78 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/themes/smmoa/images/smmoa-print-template-logo.png
78 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/themes/smmoa/images/smmoa-print-template-logo.png
68 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/10/Kianja_Strobert-009.jpg
78 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/themes/smmoa/images/smmoa-print-template-logo.png
78 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/themes/smmoa/images/smmoa-print-template-logo.png
70 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/10/Michael_Queenland-006.jpg
53 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/10/4195.jpg
66 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/06/listening-1996-98.jpg
68 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/10/Kianja_Strobert-015.jpg
53 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/10/4596.jpg
77 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/06/Diana-Thater-Install-04OnWeb.jpg
74 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/06/12-3-adam-berg-beyerhouse.jpg
75 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/06/12-small-forest-painting-8.jpg
78 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/themes/smmoa/images/smmoa-print-template-logo.png
78 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/themes/smmoa/images/smmoa-print-template-logo.png
78 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/themes/smmoa/images/smmoa-print-template-logo.png
63 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/06/biting-1996-98.jpg
78 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/themes/smmoa/images/smmoa-print-template-logo.png
78 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/themes/smmoa/images/smmoa-print-template-logo.png
74 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/06/lucapancrazziformatoOnWeb.jpg
68 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/10/Kianja_Strobert-024.jpg
81 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/06/12-4-adam-berg-endangered-spaces.jpg
91 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/06/DonkeyShow_Installation_7_by-Monica-Orozco.jpg
78 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/themes/smmoa/images/smmoa-print-template-logo.png
78 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/06/Jeffrey-Wells-Install-01OnWeb.jpg
56 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/06/12-9266.jpg
71 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/06/nannucciuniversumOnWeb.jpg
70 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/07/Artist-Project-Series.jpg
78 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/themes/smmoa/images/smmoa-print-template-logo.png
64 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/10/Agnes_Denes-003.jpg
69 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/06/12-4-tushev_Untitled.jpg
70 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/10/Michael_Queenland-144.jpg
78 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/themes/smmoa/images/smmoa-print-template-logo.png
78 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/themes/smmoa/images/smmoa-print-template-logo.png
59 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/06/12-mg-9266.jpg
78 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/themes/smmoa/images/smmoa-print-template-logo.png
69 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/06/12-5-tushev_untitled.jpg
71 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/06/12-11-careerwomen-1990.jpg
78 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/themes/smmoa/images/smmoa-print-template-logo.png
71 https://smmoa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/06/12-7-georgi-tushev-025.jpg
66 https://smmoa.org/audio/project-room-1-sharon-levy-the-wood-audio/
65 https://smmoa.org/audio/project-room-jeni-spota-dont-tread-on-me/
63 https://smmoa.org/audio/diana-thater-between-science-and-magic/
49 https://smmoa.org/audio/puppet-show-audio-series/
104 https://smmoa.org/audio/welcome-to-identity-theft-eleanor-antin-lynn-hershman-suzy-lake-1972-1978-audio/
62 https://smmoa.org/audio/combustione-alberto-burri-and-america/
52 https://smmoa.org/video/park-studio-ring-at-smmoa-2/
29 https://smmoa.org/audio/3718/
64 https://smmoa.org/audio/arnold-mesches-coming-attractions-audio/
72 https://smmoa.org/audio/project-room-2-daniel-cummings-recent-paintings/
73 https://smmoa.org/audio/project-room-1-jeffrey-wells-seeing-while-seeing/
75 https://smmoa.org/audio/project-room-loren-holland-black-magic-woman-audio/
63 https://smmoa.org/audio/project-room-khalif-kelly-electronicon/
80 https://smmoa.org/audio/brody-condon-judgement-modification-after-memling-audio/
103 https://smmoa.org/audio/andrew-lord-between-my-hands-to-water-falling-selected-works-from-1990-to-2010/
62 https://smmoa.org/audio/combustione-alberto-burri-and-america/
65 https://smmoa.org/audio/project-room-jeni-spota-dont-tread-on-me/
126 https://smmoa.org/audio/strange-new-world-art-and-design-from-tijuanaextrano-nuevo-mundo-arte-y-diseno-desde-tijuana-audio-12/
63 https://smmoa.org/audio/project-room-khalif-kelly-electronicon/
79 https://smmoa.org/audio/introduction-al-taylor-wire-instruments-and-pet-stains/
75 https://smmoa.org/audio/project-room-loren-holland-black-magic-woman-audio/
88 https://smmoa.org/audio/barkley-l-hendricks-birth-of-the-cool-paintings-1964-2007-audio/
62 https://smmoa.org/audio/project-room-1-arik-levy-luminescence/
52 https://smmoa.org/video/park-studio-ring-at-smmoa-2/
104 https://smmoa.org/audio/tell-me-something-good-a-collaboration-between-kim-schoenstadt-and-rita-mcbride/
62 https://smmoa.org/audio/project-room-1-arik-levy-luminescence/
71 https://smmoa.org/video/the-donkey-show-a-conversation-part-1-at-smmoa/
68 https://smmoa.org/video/visions-of-india-in-california-at-the-smmoa/
65 https://smmoa.org/audio/project-room-henry-taylor-girrrrrl-audio/
74 https://smmoa.org/video/gallery-talk-adam-berg-endangered-spaces-at-smmoa/
63 https://smmoa.org/audio/diana-thater-between-science-and-magic/
73 https://smmoa.org/audio/project-room-1-jeffrey-wells-seeing-while-seeing/
54 https://smmoa.org/audio/project-room-nicole-cherubini/
66 https://smmoa.org/audio/project-room-1-sharon-levy-the-wood-audio/
104 https://smmoa.org/audio/tell-me-something-good-a-collaboration-between-kim-schoenstadt-and-rita-mcbride/

http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title
100
98 Alison Saar: Traveling Light, Topsy Turvey, Compton Nocturne, and Tree Souls Artist Project Series
36 Martin Kersels: Heavyweight Champion
54 James Luna: The Dream Hat Ritual Artist Project Series
77 Anne Bray and Molly Cleator: Easy Chair, Electric Chair Artist Project Series
27 Rosamond Purcell: Two Rooms
42 Al Taylor: Wire Instruments and Pet Stains
39 David Nash: A Collaboration with Nature
60 Barkley I. Hendricks: Birth of the Cool, Paintings 1964-2007
55 Megan Williams: Drawn from Memory Artist Project Series
29 Park Studio: Complex Elements
67 Stuart Bender and Angelo Funicelli: Induction Artist Project Series
88 Milton Glaser for Lapchi: An Exploration of Pattern Making and Color Effects in Textiles
26 Kota Ezawa: On Photography
53 Liza Lou: Back Yard and Kitchen Artist Project Series
67 World Artists for Tibet: Human Rights Month Community Focus Gallery
39 Thomas Kovachevich: Paper/Plastic/Paint
68 Isa Melsheimer: Vermilion Sands and Other Stories from the Neon West
14 INCOGNITO 2011
19 Liga Pang: New Work
18 Roger Herman: Pots
29 Robert Tannen: Citizen Artist
77 Andrew Lord: Between My Hands to Water Falling, Selected Works from 1990-2010
51 William Leavitt: Random Trees Artist Project Series
32 Georgi Tushev: Strange Attractor
15 The Donkey Show
53 Roy Dowell: Collages Collages Community Focus Gallery
68 Isa Melsheimer: Vermilion Sands and Other Stories from the Neon West
50 Cars into Bicycles at Bergamot Station Arts Center
75 Lithium Legs and Apocalyptic Photons: The Imaginative World of James Carter
14 INCOGNITO 2010
50 Stephen Keene: Miracle Half Mile: 10,000 Paintings
34 Euphoria: Paintings by Miriam Wosk
64 Beck and Al Hansen: Playing with Matches Community Focus Gallery
76 Linda Nishio: Protekshun (and the Desire to Surrender) Artist Project Series
13 Michael Asher
26 PRECOGNITO/ INCOGNITO 2012
16 Nicole Cherubini
59 Karen Carson: But Enough About Me A Twenty-Five Year Survey
125 The Next Wave In: Art by a Selected Group of Recent and Continuing Students from Santa Monica College Community Focus Gallery
9 Freestyle
14 INCOGNITO 2005
45 Terry Allen: Dugout II (Hold on to the House)
46 Libro/Oggetto: Italian Artists  Books 1960sNow
81 Agnes Denes: Body Prints, Philosophical Drawings, and Map Projections, 1969  1978
28 Patrick Tosani: Photographer
34 VALIE EXPORT: Ob/De+Con(Struction)
24 Allan Sekula: Fish Story
23 Abby Donovan: Tick Tock
40 Pat O Neill: Views from Lookout Mountain
51 Brody Condon: Judgment Modification (After Memling)
14 Lara Schnitger
24 Nira Pereg: Sabbath 2008
81 Tim Rollins + K.O.S.: The Virginia Avenue Park Project: A Midsummer Night s Dream
57 Allen Ruppersberg: You and Me or The Art of Give and Take
40 Eleanor Antin: Minetta LaneA Ghost Story
15 The Puppet Show
29 Jeni Spota: Don t Tread on Me
40 Mickalene Thomas: Origin of the Universe
32 Loren Holland: Black Magic Woman
58 Retrospective Exhibition of the Visual Art of Jean Cocteau
15 Eduardo Sarabia
41 The Book Show: Raymond Pettibon 1978-2001
34 Callum Morton: International Style
18 Ant Farm 1968-1978
80 Tell Me Something Good: A Collaboration between Kim Schoenstadt and Rita McBride
69 Beatrice Wood: Career  WomanDrawings, Paintings, Vessels, and Objects
47 Elias Sime: Eye of the Needle, Eye of the Heart
38 Mark Leckey: Fiorucci Made Me Hardcore
29 Mariella Bettineschi: Voyager
38 Beth B: Under Lock and Key and Amnesia
103 Lisabeth Davidow and Megan Williams: Interarts Project at Santa Monica Museum of Art and Beyond Baroque
43 Michael Queenland: Rudys Ramp of Remainders
45 Kianja Strobert: Nothing to Do but Keep Going
53 Richard Carter and Margaret Pezalla-Granlund: Iceberg
35 Jennifer Steinkamp: Gender Specific
34 Arnold Mesches: Coming Attractions
62 Out West and Back East: New Work from Los Angeles and New York
19 Lee Caruso: through
15 The Puppet Show
80 Tell Me Something Good: A Collaboration between Kim Schoenstadt and Rita McBride
26 Alfred Jensen: Concordance
24 Lilla Locurto: Crossings
29 Park Studio: Complex Elements
51 Seven Artists: Aspects of Contemporary Japanese Art
54 Cavepainting: Peter Doig, Chris Ofili, and Laura Owens
18 Mark Dutcher: Gone
88 Milton Glaser for Lapchi: An Exploration of Pattern Making and Color Effects in Textiles
32 Loren Holland: Black Magic Woman
56 Richard Wyatt: Central Avenue Jazz Artist Project Series
46 Urs Fischer: What Should an Owl Do with a Fork
58 Richard Jackson: Big Confusing Ideas Artist Project Series
24 Nira Pereg: Sabbath 2008
15 The Donkey Show
27 Pierre Bismuth: Coming Soon
51 lvaro Siza/Architect: Drawings, Models, Photographs
36 Knowledge: Aspects of Conceptual Art
26 Kelly Barrie: Mirror House
63 William Pope.L: Art After White People: Time, Trees,  Celluloid
23 Arik Levy: Luminescence
40 Aspects of Contemporary Mexican Painting

250
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_Milton 0.3515213997459465
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_Wilke 0.7915520228398529
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson starts_with_char_a -1.5431049548258857
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson starts_with_char_t -8.761337083632123
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson starts_with_char_w -7.580341698391224
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson starts_with_char_C -6.607167879415177
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson starts_with_char_B 4.7726684322134005
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson starts_with_char_K -0.17792506136139333
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson starts_with_char_J -1.3040033356437515
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson starts_with_char_M 1.7699472309241964
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson starts_with_char_L -2.82367391201429
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson starts_with_char_G 4.766001067255706
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson starts_with_char_F -5.741297319849108
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson starts_with_char_I -10.064277639707939
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson starts_with_char_H -6.8629533141942405
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson starts_with_char_R -1.3389181108203152
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson starts_with_char_S -9.252877083891866
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson starts_with_char_N -0.5507716918702522
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson starts_with_char_O -3.5510894171043934
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson starts_with_char_W -4.52007853128702
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_Taylor -0.27170274149486134
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_Sandra 1.1518089433760312
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_Public 0.7905007946906869
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_Lou 0.5898430927572348
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_Condon -0.0908225266792019
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_Lapchi 0.5525344436342747
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_Grimonprez 0.5320059242682841
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_length_8 -3.6887184664356676
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_length_9 -7.320319315814355
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_Lita 0.7815483871722381
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_Mary 0.4398787445107098
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_length_7 -6.692398464722016
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_length_6 2.679100946117135
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_length_5 3.8884870206309916
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_length_4 -1.477565005431833
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_length_3 -1.2097426176889812
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_Henry 0.1487028177528698
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_Johan 0.5320059242682841
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_and -0.765533263380506
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_Ken 0.810180643597092
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_Leckey 0.5703337289307437
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_Kelly 1.8175920867687592
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_Khalif 1.4532797915137086
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_George 0.34612246304287764
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_Margaret 4.076499325109812
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson capitalized_token 24.61546444986408
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_Degroodt 4.36953947396564
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_David -1.510254636231029
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_Libro 3.4212368658474506
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_Thomas -0.44085131853871223
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_respective 0.20095928042126215
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_music 1.3945292260796331
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description starting_digit_- 2.257922294230329
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_Glbin 1.2485471984217649
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_dramatically 0.4232097895633645
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_a 18.20467111603061
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_t 0.5979501080171458
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_American 1.5073400217263153
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description before_decimal_len_1 2.4511222035902236
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_Loop 0.4197043419576828
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_innovatory 0.4229054524941841
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description num_len_5 2.6415695637531975
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description num_len_1 2.4511222035902236
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_length_21 0.8270782428405892
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_approach 0.6253538242474275
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_work 8.98012054530791
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_toe 0.20331951591009043
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description capitalized_token -23.414624658019154
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_continued 0.8367182214575781
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_up 0.5642898790236872
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_also 4.909066231549608
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_length_4 3.1998418579131
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_Astrid 0.4845313091596993
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_ask 0.20095928042126215
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_of 17.05580812234437
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_He 2.1756386587618115
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_by 11.472605418134625
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_at 5.846676881397368
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description starts_with_char_g 10.105392211762997
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description starts_with_char_p 14.307695488665948
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description starts_with_char_K 0.15545756408376338
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description starts_with_char_U 5.2240415597024565
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description starts_with_char_P 6.755256956989092
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_worship 0.20098447919378293
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_focusing 0.20095963730535138
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_common 0.4216120573225484
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_prestigious 1.224321729663876
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_large 1.9851411921327557
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_Angeles 6.573946812387112
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_Chan 1.2485471984217649
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_Seiko 0.6004569967484292
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_Marini 1.2485471984217649
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_light 3.0455416220083453
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_hoping 0.20146265097791302
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_visual 4.131258325531564
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_specific 2.5871148506778767
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_Snyder 1.2485471984217649
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_wire 1.0029071361810142
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_Erika 1.2485471984217649
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_cultures 0.4216120573225484
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance symbol_) 2.3911052825811403
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance alpha_id_Braverman 2.5826627114870098
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance symbol_: -1.3311881220963095
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance alpha_id_Donkey 0.457046499710982
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance unit_place_digit_1 4.28805566030023
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance alpha_length_10 3.3493382762739965
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance alpha_id_Water 1.784163574554186
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance alpha_id_Debbie 0.878748616856105
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance starts_with_char_d 1.4420243988807973
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance starts_with_char_l 0.8147060244894687
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance starts_with_char_g 0.16758495895641212
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance starts_with_char_o 0.5686047645747517
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance starts_with_char_x 6.561253636945042
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance starts_with_char_w -8.308610610038697
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance starts_with_char_B 1.9831001391241359
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance starts_with_char_D 1.9693072393200406
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance starts_with_char_A 5.217243959985591
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance starts_with_char_K -0.14834788661718842
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance starts_with_char_M 0.7152061721301266
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance starts_with_char_H -0.43830232467498154
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance starts_with_char_S 5.172651887917594
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance starts_with_char_N 3.8124090713671652
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance starts_with_char_W 0.5996414997327246
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance alpha_id_Spodden 0.07660108442317654
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance alpha_id_Pomona 0.11688425048844485
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance starting_digit_3 2.6174483753107656
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance starting_digit_2 1.8551502252949055
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance starting_digit_1 4.421421466183301
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance alpha_id_Museum 6.225969553954266
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance alpha_id_Map 0.35096672445572796
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance alpha_id_Spaces 1.668519116440177
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance alpha_id_min 5.471437747997429
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance alpha_id_the -0.727956855317983
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance alpha_id_Art 5.807460646040061
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance alpha_id_soap 2.007725646341762
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance alpha_id_American 0.914480088832625
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance before_decimal_len_4 4.777515564272614
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance before_decimal_len_2 5.99502816976845
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance before_decimal_len_3 -0.4828468232642613
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance alpha_id_Photo 6.058864045956139
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance alpha_id_Tel 2.165475196553697
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance num_len_4 4.777515564272614
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance alpha_length_8 0.9711524635900922
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance alpha_length_5 -0.7929488357302465
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance alpha_length_3 -1.5948132885582993
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance alpha_length_2 0.45879350311408007
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance alpha_id_in 0.20328183827046936
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance alpha_id_Nira 0.8361948208345737
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance alpha_id_to -2.457156072577041
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance alpha_id_courtesy 0.11576787543739685
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title after_decimal_len_0 2.135386180096452
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title symbol_- -1.6021062878302343
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title symbol_, -4.927469157176304
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title symbol_: 13.785974218779847
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_id_Jackson 0.27292665908042174
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_id_Patrick 1.1153602201657271
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title all_capitalized_token 5.372885393756134
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_id_Davidow 0.530025606781327
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_id_Abby 0.3199582271717677
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_length_11 3.0818183593387527
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_length_12 1.8679089087139293
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_id_Santa -1.5201604456295013
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_id_Rudys 0.09675402733452161
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_id_Minetta 0.2875486400420027
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title capitalized_token 6.680015867018045
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_id_Brody 0.8784313925785046
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_id_World 0.24977167525236055
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title starts_with_char_C 1.1811658475355293
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title starts_with_char_B -1.8568255155328168
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title starts_with_char_D 2.476536706608226
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_id_About 0.27293628184344537
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title starts_with_char_K 0.49535986171562224
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title starts_with_char_M -1.6330965434988232
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title starts_with_char_L -0.8354957805168161
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title starts_with_char_I 5.171328768383212
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title starts_with_char_H 1.147163529933439
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title starts_with_char_R -0.07847083220274112
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title starts_with_char_O -1.5478777534019124
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title starts_with_char_P 1.9107255258107736
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title starts_with_char_V 2.171629114154545
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_id_Coming 0.29789970513812847
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title starts_with_char_Y -1.2921282627639865
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title starting_digit_1 -1.4776282717284908
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_id_Urs 0.2706997528926658
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_id_with -1.895261043570813
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_id_Jean 0.30964476727591844
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_length_8 -0.505471309856546
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_length_9 3.6228562630885066
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_length_7 4.48437604454246
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_length_6 4.679108120948289
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_length_5 2.270012382525471
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_length_4 -0.7060674024719952
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_length_1 1.2203198997325613
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_id_Birth 0.27292992907730557
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_id_and -2.0342112411297397
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_id_Twenty 0.27293628184344537
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_id_Photographs 0.27293582837576086
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_id_Conceptual 0.27345991212672344
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_id_Plastic 0.8315088553476386
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_id_Puppet 1.7553834935968693
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink symbol__ 3.3002756129248696
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink symbol_/ 7.355359984170381
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink symbol_. -0.10712245185111052
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink symbol_- 1.760195021932614
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink symbol_: 3.1454201805019895
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_id_https 7.999554541849882
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink unit_place_digit_2 1.0621713996160451
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_id_jpg 5.657674756683302
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_id_uploads 5.657674756683302
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink starts_with_char_c -0.08371831665478391
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink starts_with_char_j 5.6576784592082126
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink starts_with_char_i -3.2532563463591737
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink starts_with_char_h 3.5817626201804784
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink starts_with_char_t -1.9035669268812707
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink starts_with_char_s 0.04541993357611304
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink starts_with_char_o 1.3178841139507922
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink starts_with_char_w 0.74122786416462
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink starting_digit_0 0.3862431112779485
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink starting_digit_1 -1.812441753709337
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_id_images 2.200183142319744
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_id_smmoa 7.999554541849882
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink before_decimal_len_4 -0.26606818011611344
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink before_decimal_len_1 -1.5238236381453245
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink before_decimal_len_2 0.6042354619441651
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_id_wp 7.857858109301555
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_length_7 -0.9690230502259122
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_length_6 -4.629122960299239
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_length_5 -1.720720394865883
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_id_org 7.999554541849882
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_id_template 2.200183352618256
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink all_capitalized_token 5.650403246731108E-5
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink unit_place_digit_9 -3.579099600217691E-9
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_id_Healey 5.813297230811941E-5
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_id_LindaRoush 1.2143768217095165E-16
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink starts_with_char_d 1.591785353543543E-4
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink starts_with_char_a 0.1417543702008714
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink starts_with_char_k 0.08153672213461963
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink starts_with_char_n 0.058544964023984104
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink starts_with_char_D 5.793692688821367E-5
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink starts_with_char_O -7.514955886990944E-7
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_id_jeffrey 3.7346472429914193E-6
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_id_logo 5.693528090437642E-7
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_id_Michael -2.4170412717333613E-6
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_id_content 5.8702329473455715E-5
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_id_themes 5.693528090437642E-7
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink num_len_1 5.813297664667848E-5
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_id_Civilization 1.8629085516960124E-12
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_length_8 9.515596481572282E-4
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_length_4 0.14120685356931742
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_length_3 0.14175383801665256
