4

http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson
100
15 Taddeo Crivelli
8 Affecter
14 Girolamo Genga
18 Underworld Painter
17 Francesco Laurana
24 Pedro Atanasio Bocanegra
17 Mariotto di Nardo
18 Bartolomeo Rigossi
20 Bartolomeo Cavarozzi
10 Lelio Orsi
15 Silas A. Holmes
14 Johann Zoffany
13 Ralph Steiner
18 Theodore Maurisset
15 Palermo Painter
15 Ignaz Preissler
14 Paolo Veronese
17 Daniel Lindtmayer
29 Master of the Berlin Roundels
22 Michel-Dorothe Coudray
15 Pierre Gouthire
15 Eugne Delacroix
15 Hans von Aachen
19 Frank Chauvassaigne
14 Else Thalemann
14 Lorenzo Monaco
32 Master of the White Inscriptions
8 Guercino
19 Johann Adam Pichler
18 Constantin Huygens
11 Marco Ricci
12 Jan Gossaert
15 Agnolo Bronzino
11 Anna Atkins
26 Claude-Joseph Dsir Charnay
17 Isaiah West Taber
13 Pietro Longhi
20 Josse van Craesbeeck
20 Santa Eufemia Master
20 Valentin de Boulogne
14 Hill & Adamson
14 Carlo Saraceni
15 Salomon de Bray
18 Bernardo Cavallino
12 Felice Giani
19 Domenico Campagnola
10 Paul Gudin
26 Master of Sir John Fastolf
20 Timothy H. OSullivan
15 Pietro Cipriani
21 Frederick Henry Evans
35 Anne-Louis Girodet de Roucy-Trioson
11 Sheron Rupp
20 Marcus Aurelius Root
12 Josias Murer
15 Bernard Palissy
28 Michel Corneille the Younger
11 Bute Master
18 Eucharides Painter
28 Michel-Barnabe Chauvaux, ain
28 Rembrandt Harmensz. van Rijn
21 Osborne House Painter
33 Francesco di Antonio del Chierico
21 Jean-Jacques Caffieri
14 Michael Sittow
21 Domenico Maria Canuti
11 Grete Stern
15 Jan de Bisschop
8 Urs Graf
12 Paul Georges
19 Jacques-Louis David
29 Gilles-Franois-Joseph Closson
19 tienne-Louis Boulle
20 Jean-Baptiste Greuze
11 Juan Juanes
13 Ferdinand Bol
14 Martin Puryear
13 Paulus Potter
15 Caivano Painter
26 Achille and Thodule Devria
9 Jan Steen
26 Aubert-Henri-Joseph Parent
31 Master of the Copenhagen Caesar
18 Alessandro Algardi
19 Ezra Greenleaf Weld
7 Jim Dow
19 Stefano della Bella
19 Baron Franois Grard
22 Bernd and Hilla Becher
13 James M. Ford
20 Joachim von Sandrart
16 Ercole deRoberti
19 Domenico Tintoretto
14 Michel Anguier
12 Pietro Testa
22 Jean-Baptiste Chatigny
20 Sebastian Hchstetter
12 Robert Adams
33 Master of the Houghton Miniatures
14 Brygos Painter

http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/biographicalInformation
100
693 Described in a 1777 Parisian newspaper as one of the most highly recommended [cabinetmakers] for furniture of tortoiseshell, silver, ebony, or brass of the type made by the celebrated Boulle, Philippe-Claude Montigny specialized in copying and restoring the furniture of the famous seventeenth-century craftsman Andr-Charles Boulle. The son of anbniste,Montigny was accepted by theguildas a master and took over his fathers workshop at the age of thirty-two. He is best known for his work in the tortoiseshell and pewtermarquetrytechnique made famous by Boulle, but he also reused panels of seventeenth-century Boulle marquetry to create furniture in more fashionable eighteenth-century forms.
1221 Signatures on paintings are the only surviving documents of Jacobus Vrels life. His seemingly nave style and his pictures rarity even have prompted speculation that he was an amateur. Scholars most often link Vrels manner to Delft artists such as Johannes Vermeer and Pieter de Hooch, but elements in his street scenes may indicate connections to Haarlem, Friesland,Flanders, or the lower Rhineland. Scholars have attributed thirty-eight paintings depicting domestic interiors, courtyards, street scenes, and church interiors to Vrel. His only dated painting, from 1654, suggests that, rather than following, Vrel anticipated Delft artists interest in domestic themes and light effects.Vrel rejected Dutch artists traditional approach of describing surfaces in great detail. Instead, he created lofty spaces, often conveying an eerie feeling of emptiness. His interiors, with their curiously stunted furniture, frequently display a single woman, usually viewed from behind or in profile. His street scenes are unusual in their anonymity, showing unremarkable back streets and ordinary people. Vrels painting technique--a straightforward manner without glazes or other refinements--complemented his unpretentious subjects.
1296 Giovanni Battista Piazzetta did not care greatly for honors and neither for his own interest. He lived in love with his art, wrote his publisher. Piazzetta established himself by creating art utterly different from that of his Venetian contemporaries. Instead of spontaneous improvisation, intense colorpalettes, and decorative effects--often in the popularfrescomedium--Piazzetta worked slowly in almost monochromatic oils, creating religious canvases and enigmaticgenrepictures. He is a snail, said a Swedish visitor.His sculptor father probably introduced Piazzetta to art. Study with Giuseppe Maria Crespi in Bologna likely ignited his fascination with somber, dramatic effects and his interest in genre painting. Piazzetta emulated Crespi by portraying common people. By the 1740s he owned an active studio concentrating on church commissions and genre scenes.Piazzettas renowned drawings of half-length figures and heads documented the people of Venice. Traditionally, Venetian painters did not consider drawings as independent works of art, but Piazzetta created a new art form, giving drawing a status equal to painting in importance and quality. After being appointed director of the newly founded academyScuola di Nudo(School of the Nude) in 1750, Piazzetta devoted himself to teaching.
54 Lawrence Alma Tadema:SpringSpring,PosterMORE BOOKSTORE
2629 Joel Sternfeld is well known for large-format color photographs that extend the tradition of chronicling roadside America initiated by Walker Evans in the 1930s. Sternfelds projects have consistently explored the possibility of a collective American identity by documenting ordinary people and places throughout the country. Each project he embarks on is bound by a concept that imbues it with subtle irony, often through insightful visual juxtapositions or by pairing images with informational text. Another characteristic aspect of Sternfelds work is that color is never arbitrary; it functions in highly sophisticated ways to connect elements and resonate emotion.Sternfeld earned a BA in Art from Dartmouth College in 1965. He began making color photographs in the 1970s after learning the color theory of Johannes Itten and Josef Albers. He initially made street photographs with small- and medium-format cameras, but by the time he produced what would become a seminal project,American Prospects(1987), he was working with an eight-by-ten-inch camera. This enabled him to achieve the crisp details his work is known for. Sternfelds style-his careful attention to visual qualities combined with an insightful and often ironic view of his subjects was first articulated inAmerican Prospects.One of his best-known images, for example, depicts a fireman shopping for a pumpkin as a house burns in the background. The pumpkins vibrant oranges match the autumnal colors of the countryside, and ironically, the fires flames.Sternfeld continues to apply his studied observation of color to the everyday events and people he comes across as he travels.On This Site: Landscapes in Memoriam(1996) depicts sites where tragic events in American history occurred, including the places where Martin Luther King was murdered and Rodney King beaten. LikeAmerican Prospects,Stranger Passing(2001) became a travelogue of sorts. Instead of landscapes, however, Sternfeld made full-length portraits of the people he met during his journeys across America. Each picture tells a story via the persons physical appearance and the rich details of their surroundings. Other projects have focused on New Yorks Hart Island, historically used as a cemetery for the unknown and forgotten; the G8 summit in Geneva in July 2001, where anti-global protests turned violent; and the juxtaposition of old and new cultures in Italys Campagna Romagna. More recently,Sweet Earth: Experimental Utopias in America(2006) explores the sites of past and present idealized communities. Sternfeld has taught photography at Sarah Lawrence College in New York since 1985.
981 Paolo Veronese belonged to a circle of influential and important painters in sixteenth-century Venice. Born Paolo Caliari, he became known as Veronese after his birthplace, Verona. At the age of fourteen, Veronese was apprenticed to an established Venetian painter, but he was more influenced by the monumental works of Raphael and Michelangelo. He arrived in Venice in at the age of twenty-five and spent the rest of his lifetime there, paintingaltarpiecesand decorative cycles in chapels and palaces.Twenty years later, Inquisitors challenged Veronese, asking him to account for the presence of buffoons, drunkards, dwarfs, Germans, and similar vulgarities in his painting of the Last Supper for amonasteryin Venice. Veronese defended himself by invoking the artists right to creative freedom. By the end of his life, Veroneses paintings were in such high demand that his brother, two sons, and a nephew had to carry out the remainder of his numerous commissions after his death.
829 The son of a city planner, Frederick Sommer was trained as an architect in Brazil. He began to exhibit his drawings in Brazil while still a teenager. His work was so accomplished that he was accepted to the architecture department at Cornell University, though he had not received an undergraduate degree and did not yet speak English.Sommer purchased his first camera around 1931 while he was in Switzerland recovering from a bout of tuberculosis. Settling permanently in Prescott, Arizona, in 1935, he began to photograph in earnest after beginning a correspondence with Alfred Stieglitz and after seeing Edward Westons images. His earliest pictures were still lifes of sometimes gruesome subjects, such as chicken carcasses; he later made landscapes and photographed assemblages of unlikely objects, some taken from the trash.
984 Because of the tiny size of his prints, Heinrich Aldegrever is considered one of a group of GermanRenaissanceartists known as the Little Masters. He first trained as a goldsmith and produced a large number of ornamental designs for ironwork during the early part of his career, including designs for sheaths of swords, daggers and domestic knives. Most of his career however, was devoted to making engravings of mythological and Biblical subjects such as theTwelve Labors ofHerculesand the Story of Adam and Eve.Stylistically Aldegrevers work reflects the influence of Albrecht Drer, whose work was widely known throughout Europe and whose monogram Aldegrever imitated. Unlike Drer and his followers who specialized in intricate line work, Aldegrever specialized in optical effects of light and shadow. Slim, elongated figures and agitated drapery further distinguish his work. Aldegrever produced almost 300 engravings between 1527 and 1555, nearly all on a miraculously small scale.
1326 This child will be theNapoleonof painting, Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres predicted about the prodigy who entered his studio at age eleven. Before he was seventeen, Thodore Chassriau won a third-class medal at theSalon. His early female nudes combined his characteristic sensuality with Ingress idealizing style.In 1840 Chassriau joined Ingres in Rome. Increasingly critical of the academic curriculum, Chassriau became interested in theRomanticart of Ingress nemesis, Eugne Delacroix. As Chassriau recounted the break, In a long conversation with M. Ingres, I saw that on many issues we could never have a meeting of minds. In response, Igres announced, Never speak to me again of that childBack in Paris, Chassriau undertook decorations for churches and other public buildings; most are now poorly preserved. Recalling the ItalianRenaissance, Chassriau attempted to show great things like majesty and sublimity, dreaminess and melancholy. His decorations later influenced Gustave Moreaus Symbolist style.In 1846 Chassriau followed in Delacroixs footsteps by traveling to Algeria, where he made detailed drawings on which he based his late Orientalist canvases. A prolific draftsman, Chassriau drew portraits in lead pencil, as had Ingres. He also made prints after his paintings and etchings illustrating ShakespearesOthello.
47 Camille Silvy:River Scene, FranceMORE BOOKSTORE
1419 In his early twenties, Eadweard Muybridge moved to the United States, where he was drawn to the primarily uncharted Western landscape. After a stagecoach accident, he convalesced back home in England and learned photography. Upon returning to the States in 1867, he soon earned his reputation photographing the landscape.Apparently a hot-tempered man, Muybridge shot and killed his much younger wifes lover but was acquitted after a sensational trial, in part perhaps because he was friends with Leland Stanford, railroad magnate and governor of California. They became acquainted in 1872, when Stanford made a bet regarding a horses gallop, contending that when a horse gallops, at some point all four of its feet are off the ground simultaneously. Stanford hired Muybridge to prove it photographically; Muybridge, using a system of trip-shutter, high-speed photography and twenty-four cameras, did just that. Never one for false modesty, Muybridge declared:The circumstances must have been exceptionally felicitous that made co-laborateurs [sic] of the man that no practical impediment could halt and of the artist who, to keep pace with the demands of the railroad builders, hurried his art to a marvel of perfection that it is fair to believe it would not else have reached in another century.Muybridge is best known for this work and his Animal Locomotion series of stopped-action motion studies completed in 1887.
774 Drawings by Gerardus van Veen are rare, and little is known about the artist himself. His father was recorded in Haarlem in 1626 but had moved away by 1628, probably to Beverwijk a few miles north. Both van Veen and his brother were natural history draftsmen; many more of his brothers drawings exist today. The brothers practiced the same highly finished, meticulous style, but their authorship can be distinguished because they signed and dated their drawings. Both van Veens belonged to a group of artists that included Herman Saftleven, who made refined natural history illustrations in watercolors for a wealthy clientele, many of whom owned country houses on the Vecht River outside Amsterdam. Ranging in date from 1643 to 1678, most of van Veens studies depict birds.
946 The anonymous artist known as the Bute Master was named for his work on a psalter formerly in the collection of the Marquess of Bute, Scotland, and now in the Getty Museum. Though the Bute Master often collaborated with other illuminators, as was common in the 1200s, he was solely responsible for all 190 historiated initials in the Bute Psalter. A prolific artist who worked in the prosperous cities in the border region between France and Flanders, the Bute Master is known for his distinctive historiated initials and decorative border extensions. These border extensions often served as supports for lively marginal figures engaged in a variety of activities.The Bute Master did his most inventive, finely finished work in a number of religious service books and devotional manuscripts, including the Bute Psalter. He also illuminated secular texts, mostly written in French, working in a simplified, linear style using thick black outlines.
1350 Native New Yorker Adam Bartos has been photographing since he was a teenager and creates photographs suffused with a quiet calm. He cites William Eggleston--known for his intensely colored images of ordinary scenes--and the earlier photographers Timothy OSullivan and Carleton Watkins--both known for their unique documents of the changing American landscape--as primary influences, Bartos focuses on the contemporary landscape. Yet, in his images, time seems to stand still, lending them an aura of temporal dislocation.In the early 1970s he attended film school at New York University and began working with color photography. He was mentored independently by the photographer Evelyn Hofer, known for her serene and meticulous color compositions.Bartos published perhaps his best-known work--photographs illustrating the effects of time on the modernist United Nations building in New York after fifty years of use--in the bookInternational Territory: The United Nations, 1945-95, 1995.During the summers of 1991-95 he made a photographic series on middle-class Long Island vacationers calledHither Hillspublished in the photography magazineDouble Takein 1997. In 2001 he publishedKosmos: A Portrait of the Russian Space Age,photographs of the obsolescent future of the Soviet space program.Boulevard(2006) features images of Los Angeles and Paris.
965 Antonio Pisano, known as Pisanello, was one of the most popular artists of his time. Although he identified himself as a painter in his signatures, he trained as a goldsmith and was an excellent draftsman. He worked at the courts of Mantua, Ferrara, Pavia, Milan, and Naples and was especially beloved by the Gonzaga and Este families.In the early years of his career, Pisanello worked with the painter Gentile da Fabriano. In addition to painting on panel andfresco, he also worked as a medalist. He is credited with the creation of the personal commemorative medal, making the first example for the EmperorJohn VIII Palaeologuson the occasion of a Church council. This type of medal, revived from antiquity, glorified the represented ruler.Except for a brief stint in 1439, when Pisanello became involved in the capture and sack of Verona, he worked almost continuously. He was last recorded in 1449 at the Aragonese court in Naples but may have lived until 1455.
1220 Larry Burrows began his career during one of the most exciting and harrowing times for photojournalists: World War II.LifeMagazines London bureau hired 16-year old Burrows as a tea boy, essentially an errand runner for the staff. His first job gave him exposure to some of the worlds best news images. Soon, Burrows became a shooter in his own right, taking photographs of Winston Churchill, Ernest Hemingway and others.Burrows is best known for his nine years of work covering the Vietnam War. His photographs reveal the humanperspectivebehind the fighting, the precise angleLifewas looking for in their war coverage. Burrows often shot color film, while many of his counterparts used black and white exclusively. Color gave his images a greater sense of immediacy and a heightened reality.A three-time winner of the prestigious Robert Capa Award from the Overseas Press Club of America for his superlative photography requiring exceptional courage and enterprise, ironically, Burrows met the same fate as Capa. Like Capa 17 years earlier, in 1971 on his way to cover South Vietnams expansion of the conflict into Laos, Burrows and four other photojournalists were killed when their helicopter crashed under enemy fire.
1289 Landscape painter and draftsman Pieter Stevens may have trained in Antwerp, for he was a free master there in 1589. Early drawings depicting ancient monuments in Rome and Naples were probably copies of works by Jan Brueghel the Elder, rather than proof that Stevens went to Italy. In 1594 Stevens was appointed court painter to Emperor Rudolf II in Prague, where he may have known Roelandt Savery. There he specialized in depicting peasant festivals and mountain scenes. The court workshop reproduced Stevenss landscape designs inpietra durafor furniture decoration. Engravings also disseminated the designs.In Prague, Stevenss interest in light and atmospheric effects expanded these themes, which later became popular in Dutch art of the 1600s. He also developed landscape as an independent genre, without figures or animals. His coloristic tendencies were clearest in his drawings, when he changed his media from pen and dark ink against deep blue washes to brush and soft tones. He may have been influenced by Jan Brueghel the Elders 1604 visit to Prague, for Brueghel used a similar wash technique. After Rudolfs death, Stevens may have worked for Prince Charles of Liechtenstein, Stadtholder of Bohemia, from at least 1620 to 1624. His son and grandsons were also painters in Prague.
92 Karl Grill was active as a photographer in the city of Donaueschingen, Germany in the 1920s.
1135 Born the son of a clockmaker and goldsmith, Jean Joseph-Xavier Bidauld became one of the finest Neo-classical landscape painters in France. After some rudimentary painting instruction from his older brother, Bidauld attended thecole des Beaux-Artsin Lyon. In 1783 he moved toParis, where the perfumer and art dealer Dulac became hispatron. Dulac paid for Bidauld to go to Italy, where he remained for five years; while there, he dedicated himself exclusively to landscape painting. Bidaulds journey was to have a fundamental impact on his artistic outlook, which remained nearly unchanged for the next sixty years. His paintings have cool lighting, meticulously painted foliage and architecture, and sweeping vistas that conformed to then-popular precepts about Neo-classical landscapes. Bidauld regularly exhibited at the ParisSalonbetween 1791 and 1844, winning a gold medal in 1812. When Neo-classicism lost favor, Bidauld was unable to adapt to changing styles and, as a consequence, fell out of fashion. Though at the height of his career he counted Charles IV, Napolon, and Louis XVIII among his patrons, Bidauld died in poverty.
2178 Isamu Noguchi regarded his sculptures not as rarefied art objects, but as living forms capable of activating and transforming the spaces they inhabit. Drawing inspiration from ancient forms--from Japanese temples to Native American burial mounds--Noguchi intended for his work to serve an integral role in its physical and spiritual environment.Noguchis mother was an American teacher and writer and his father an acclaimed Japanese poet. His mother was raised him in Japan before being sending Noguchi alone to attend high school in Indiana. Noguchi moved to New York to attend Columbia University in 1922, but left in 1924 to become a sculptor. In 1927 the young artist went to Paris where he worked as sculptor Constantin Brancusis studio assistant. Later he traveled to China, Japan, and Mexico.Returning to New York at the end of 1928, Noguchi began designing plazas, playgrounds, gardens, fountains, and sculpture gardens. He also created portrait busts and dance and theater sets. In 1942, Noguchi voluntarily entered a Japanese-American relocation camp in Arizona for six months. There, he designed a camp recreation area in order to improve the environment for internees, but this project was never realized. Back in New York, Noguchi created a series of mixed-media constructions to articulate his anguish in the face of World War II. By the wars end, a suite of abstract forms executed in marble and slate had established Noguchis reputation.Growing fame enabled Noguchi to ambitiously explore what he called the sculpture of spaces--working to make sculpture a part of daily life. His furniture designs were mass-produced by the Herman Miller Furniture Company and by Knoll. He created innovative stage sets for avant-garde choreographers including Martha Graham.  Synthesizing Eastern and Western influences in a personal aesthetic, Noguchi designed numerous playgrounds, sculpture gardens, and courtyards. He also continued making sculptures and worked with a range of materials including Italian marble and granite, aluminum and bronze. Several years before his death, he opened his Long Island City home and studio to the public, now known as the Noguchi Museum.
1188 Lambert Doomers father, a frame-maker and cabinetmaker, first trained his son to be a joiner. By the early 1640s, however, Doomer was probably studying with one of his fathers picture-frame customers, Rembrandt van Rijn, who painted portraits of Doomers parents. Known for his work as a topographical draftsman, Doomer largely based his drawings on his travels. In 1646 he visited his brothers at Nantes, returning to northern France via the Loire valley and sketching chteaux and towns such as Saumur and Le Havre. He made several journeys through the Netherlands and in 1663 he traveled up the Rhine. From 1669 to 1695, Doomer lived mostly in Alkmaar in the northwest Netherlands, where his home still stands. During the 1670s he sold copies of his earlier drawings. From 1671 to 1673, he reproduced an extensive group on account-book paper, which constitutes almost a quarter of his surviving works. Over three hundred of his drawings exist, most with subtle watercolorwashesand some with whitebodycolorover black chalk. Himself a collector, Doomer purchased items from Rembrandts 1658 sale, including an album of drawings by Roelandt Savery. Doomer spent his final years in Amsterdam.
1074 Only a century after his death, a University of Louvain professor hailed Dieric Bouts as the famous inventor in depicting the countryside. Born in Haarlem, Bouts worked mostly in Louvain, where he became city painter in 1468 and married a woman from a wealthy Louvain family. He eventually established a large workshop that employed his two sons. Bouts painted a range of subjects in a style characterized by elongated, calm, reflective figures; rich, controlled colors; and dignified, understated emotion. Like most Netherlandish painters of his time, Bouts made his innovations through religious subjects, fromaltarpiecesto small devotional paintings that people kept in their homes. He was deeply influenced by Rogier van der Weyden, but where Rogiers portraits overwhelm with their beauty and expressive design, Bouts depicted Everyman. His style and investigations of new ways to establish depth in painting greatly influenced contemporary Netherlandish painters. His more homespun portraits and refreshing landscapes also appealed to artists at the end of the century.
1000 Herman van Swanevelt spent his career outside his native Holland. In Paris he painted his first signed and dated works in 1623. In 1629 he moved to Rome, where he painted many landscapes with biblical and mythological subjects. His usual compositional structure, derived from Cornelis van Poelenburghs work, proved very popular with the Romans, and the Barberini family and theVaticanoffered him commissions. Along with Claude Lorrain and others, he also painted landscapes for Philip IVs new Buen Retiro Palace in Madrid.In the 1630s Swanevelts landscapes made him an important link between early DutchItalianatepainters such as van Poelenburgh and Bartholomeus Breenbergh and the second generation Italianates such as Nicolaes Berchem. In 1641 he returned to Paris, where he remained except for occasional visits to his birthplace. He became a member of theAcadmie Royale de Peinture et de Sculpturein 1651. He assisted in the decoration of the Htel Lambert and made numerous drawings and etchings.
1766 I wont be the first woman journalist in Paris . . . but Ill be the first dame photographer, . . . unless someone parachutes in. . . . Anyway I guess Im the only dame whos really covered a battle.One would hardly guess that a woman famous for her beauty and her role as a fashioniconwrote these words, which clearly express pride at being the only female working as a war correspondent. It was the role Lee Miller, who described her passion for the job as a taste for gunpowder, found most fulfilling, as it accommodated both her artistic impulses and her restless nature. Miller, one of the first American correspondents to photograph the horror at the Dachau and Buchenwald concentration camps, created images of war in which formalism, compassion, and wit are uniquely combined.While in her twenties, Miller had a lucrative modeling career that put her before the cameras of Edward Steichen and Arnold Genthe. Through working with them and with other artists, she developed her own photography skills. After studying theatrical lighting and design, Miller relocated to Paris in late 1929, where she became the assistant, artistic collaborator, and lover of Man Ray, who was greatly inspired by her. He introduced her to artists and writers of the Surrealist movement, with whom she maintained lasting relationships even after her affair with Man Ray ended. While with Man Ray, Miller learned a great deal and received her own assignments for fashion photography fromVogue.At a Surrealist ball in 1937 she met the painter Roland Penrose; like Man Ray, Penrose found her inspirational. Miller ceased making pictures herself sometime after World War II, and married Penrose in 1946. She died in 1977, with all evidence of her extraordinary career packed in her attic.
1637 In 1972, one year after completing his undergraduate degree at Yale where he studied with Walker Evans, Alex Harris moved to New Mexico to photograph theancianos, the elders in the Hispanic communities of New Mexico. These images were subsequently published inThe Old Ones of New Mexico, 1973, his first of several collaborations with psychiatrist and writer Robert Coles.Admiring Walker Evanss skill at revealing mystery in what seemed so ordinary, Harris portrays a rich human presence in his photographs taken of his subjects homes, their gardens and roads, as well as images taken from the back seats of their cars--while the subjects of the portraits themselves are rarely directly present. The lived-in spaces bear the traces of their inhabitants--evidence of what Harris describes as the human devotion to home.Initially working in black and white, Harris switched to color film and a view camera in 1980. His rich and varied career has included photographing in North Carolina, New Mexico, and Alaska; teaching documentary photography at Duke University and founding its Center for Documentary Studies; and founding and co-editing the national magazineDoubleTake--which ceased publication in 2005.In 1990, Harris and writer William deBuys published a non-fiction account of their friendship with Jacobo Romero, one of their northern New Mexico neighbors entitledA River of Traps: A Village Life. In 1992 Harris published probably his best-known workRed White Blue and God Bless You, a portrait of Hispanic northern New Mexico. The title was taken from an inscription in the home of carpenter Amadeo Sandoval, one of his subjects.
1284 For donating hisbustsof actors and playwrights to the French national theater, the Comdie Franaise, Jean-Jacques Caffieri, an avid theatergoer, gained free entry for life. His habit of making casts from his marble sculptures and giving them to institutions was fortuitous, for many of Caffieris marbles were lost in a fire in 1761. Belonging to the third generation of a family of sculptors and bronzeworkers who had come from Italy in the previous century, Caffieri was the younger brother of bronzeworker Philippe Caffieri. Jean-Jacques won thePrix de Romein 1748 and spent four years in Rome studying ancient art. When he returned to Paris, he became sculptor toLouis XVand provided ornamental designs for metalwork, notably for the staircase at thePalais-Royal, a famous Parisian royal residence. He made his name, however, with a series of portrait busts of contemporaries likeMadame du Barryand famous dramatists of the past.Caffieri insisted on absolute fidelity to the models features, and his talent lay in making these features come alive. He captured the kindness of astronomer Canon Pingre as well as the fierce countenance of Doctor Borie. French philosopher and art criticDenis Diderotdeclared Caffieris Doctor Borie a good enough likeness to make a patient die of fear.
1003 Francesco Fontebasso trained with Sebastiano Ricci, but it was another Venetian artist, Giovanni Battista Tiepolo, who probably had the greatest influence on Fontebassos art. Early in his training, Fontebasso studied Tiepolos frescoes and eventually came in contact with the venerated artist. Settling in Venice, Fontebasso increasingly emulated Tiepolo in his palette and compositional designs.By the 1740s, Fontebasso had established himself as a leading artist in Venice. Mainly active as a decorator of churches and palaces, Fontebasso worked both infrescoand on canvas. Like Tiepolo, Fontebasso also produced pen-and-wash drawings and executed numerous book illustrations. In 1761, Fontebasso visited Saint Petersburg and produced ceiling paintings and decorations for the Winter Palace. Sadly, like several other of his major decorative projects, this work was eventually destroyed. Fontebasso returned to Venice in 1768 and was elected president of the Acadmie Royale. He died the following year.
1185 Son of an animal painter, Philipp Peter Roos moved to Italy in 1677. There he studied with aBaroquepainter and decorator, whose daughter he married after he converted to Catholicism.Around 1684 Roos bought a ramshackle house near Tivoli that was nicknamed Noahs Ark because he raised the animals that he painted. Roos specialized in painting domestic animals with herdsmen in the Roman countryside. Animals dominate theforeground, leaving only glimpses of landscapes and heavy skies. Thickly painted, their light bodies seem to grow out of the darkness. In the 1690s he commonly jammed up to twelve animals into pictures that reached six feet or more in width. His late works gave landscape more prominence, revealing dramatic topography with vivid colors and strong emotion.Fellow members of the Schildersbent, a rowdy group of mostly Netherlandish painters in Rome, named Roos both Rosa da Tivoli and Mercurius, for his speediness in painting. His rapid-fire technique came in handy: frequently without money, the convivial Roos often painted a picture or two for ready cash, giving the still-wet canvases to his servant to sell in Rome at any price while he rang up a tab at an inn.
1244 Francesco Zuccarelli began studying very early under a Florentine landscape painter and also probably trained under a landscapist in Rome. Settling in Venice around 1732, two years after Marco Riccis death, Zuccarelli became the citys leading landscape painter. The praises of his contemporaries, as above, underscore his popularity in his own time. In his softly colored, gentle landscapes, Zuccarelli placed more importance on lyricism than on realistic details. His Arcadian scenes with picturesque peasants earned an international reputation. In his landscapes, as a pun, Zuccarelli often included a figure with a gourd bottle, for zucco is Italian for gourd. Thanks largely to Joseph Smith, Canalettos patron, Zuccarellis works developed a strong English market. Zuccarelli visited England from 1752 to 1762 and again from 1765 to 1771. He became a founding member and president of the Royal Academy and greatly influenced English landscape painting. Elected to the Venetian Academy in 1763, Zuccarelli became its president in 1772. He also worked in Paris and in the northern Italian town of Bergamo and spent his last years in Florence. Zuccarelli created innumerable drawings, some religious paintings, engravings, and tapestry designs.
1162 Over a successful career lasting more than fifty years, Gaspare Diziani painted frescoes, designed stage scenery, and worked as an art restorer. He was also one of the most prolific draftsmen in Venice in the 1700s. Diziani trained first in Belluno and then Venice, where he joined the workshop of Sebastiano Ricci, who greatly influenced Dizianis development. Diziani quickly became renowned not only for his art but for the rapidity with which he worked. This speed of execution was especially evident in Dizianis oil sketches, where he quickly and confidently applied color.In 1717, Diziani accepted several commissions in Munich and Dresden and painted decorative panels and theater scenery. He returned to Venice in 1720 and remained there for the rest of his life. From 1748 to 1760, his output was especially prodigious; he painted numerous church altarpieces and fresco decorations for villas and palaces in the city and throughout the Vento. In addition to working in oil and fresco, drawings formed a significant part of Dizianis activity. At the end of his long and distinguished career, Diziani died suddenly in a coffee shop in the Piazza San Marco.
796 TheTheseusPainter decorated vases in Athens in the period from about 510 to 490 B.C. Long after most vase-painters had switched tored-figure, he worked in theblack-figure technique. A versatile and innovative artist, he decorated a wide variety of vase shapes but specialized inskyphoiand lekythoi. On many of his works he covered the vase with a white-ground slip before adding the black-figure decoration. His lively, active figures tended to have stocky bodies and round heads, and he placed them in a wide range of scenes depicting mythological subjects, revelry, and athletes.As with most ancient artists, the real name of the Theseus Painter is unknown, and he is identified only by the stylistic traits of his work. Scholars named him after his fondness for depictions of the hero Theseus.
1000 One of the most prolific vase-painters known, Douris worked as a vase-painter and occasionally as a potter in Athens in the early 400s B.C. He is known from almost forty signed vases, two of which he also potted. Altogether, almost three hundred vases have been attributed to him. Given that scholars estimate a less than 0.5% survival rate for Greek vases, Douris may have decorated about 78,000 vases in his career. Douris primarily decoratedred-figurecups, but he also painted a few vessels of other forms and in other techniques, including white-ground. His scenes are about evenly divided between mythology and depictions of everyday life. He worked with a number of potters, including Kleophrades and Euphronios, but he seems to have had a regular collaboration with Python. Onesimos depicted a cup signed by Douris on one of his vases, and there is even an ancient forgery of Douriss signature. These unusual references attest to Douriss significant influence among contemporary vase-painters.
205 Little is known about theporcelainpainter Pierre-Andr Le Guay. A specialist in figure scenes and chinoiserie decoration at the Svres Porcelain Manufactory, he usually signed his works with his initials,LG.
1217 Although Mattia Preti spent much of his life elsewhere, he is traditionally associated with the city of Naples. Together with Luca Giordano, Preti extended the reputation of Neapolitan painting throughout Italy and internationally. Originally from Calabria in southern Italy, Preti went to Rome around 1630, sharing a room with his brother Gregorio who had arrived about two years earlier. Gregorio may have been Mattias principal teacher, although they both also studied at the Accademia di San Luca.While in Rome during the 1630s and 1640s, Preti achieved his first success. His easel paintings, particularly his early ones, are painted in the style of Caravaggio. His mature style, which reached its epitome in Naples from 1653 to 1660, is intensely dramatic, uniting aCaravaggesquerealism and expressivechiaroscurowith the grandeur and theatricality of Venetian artists like Paolo Veronese and Tintoretto. In 1661 Preti went to the island of Malta, where he remained for the rest of his life. While receiving most of the islands church commissions, he also worked for patrons from across Europe. Pretis contributions to the late Baroque style in Naples greatly inspired later painters, notably Francesco Solimena.
1178 Smile with the eyes, Edwin Gledhill frequently told his sitters. As one scholar has noted, there are rarely glimpses of teeth in the elegant portraits made by the Gledhills, husband and wife photographic partners. Carolyn Even was born in Morris, Illinois, in 1871. Her father had been a portrait photographer, and she learned the medium from him. After her fathers death, she and her sister moved to Santa Barbara, California, and opened a portrait studio.Edwin Gledhill, who was born in 1888 in Toronto, moved to California in 1903 and headed the camera department of a local bookstore. Even and Gledhills personal and professional partnership began in 1907. He joined her in business soon after their marriage. The Gledhills worked collaboratively; he arranged the sitter while she maneuvered the camera. Their images were largelyPictorialistin the soft-focus style of the day, and they photographed the wealthy vacationers and artistic community that thrived in Santa Barbara.Carolyn Gledhill died in 1935, but Edwin Gledhill continued to photograph through the end of the 1940s. He later became director of the Santa Barbara Historical Society. Edwin Gledhill died in 1976.
1148 A wigmakers son, Jean-Michel Moreau le jeune was attuned to fashion early on. Not surprisingly, then, his best-known works were illustrations for a costume book published in 1777 and 1783.Monuments de costumephysique et moraleremains the most complete record of the taste and the manners of French nobility in Moreaus day.Moreau first studied with a painter and engraver, following him to St. Petersburg in 1758. When he returned to Paris in 1759, however, he virtually abandoned painting. Joining an engravers workshop, Moreau made drawings for engravings after contemporary andOld Masterartists. He also provided drawings for DiderotsEncyclopdieand, as an engraver, collaborated with Franois Boucher and illustrated the writings ofVoltaireand Jean-Jacques Rousseau. Publishers sought him out for his powers of observation and ability to capture nuances of gesture, pose, and light.Moreau was named Designer to the King in 1770 and Designer and Engraver to the King in 1781. He traveled to Italy in 1785 and joined theAcadmie Royalein 1789. Success continued during theFrench Revolution, and in 1814 Louis XVIII re-appointed him to a royal office.
614 Jean Avisse was one of the many carvers who toiled with little recognition in Paris in the 1700s. As he produced chairs, stools, and settees for upholsterers and dealers, he probably never earned much money. His business was so poor that he was forced to declare bankruptcy twice, in 1769 and in 1776. Despite this, Paris archives show that he paid a large sum of money to receive the honorary title of  Flag Holder in the Town Hall Guards.Avisses elaborately carved chairs are finely detailed, with creative variations on commonmotifssuch as shells, flowers, and leaves. He used the stampIAVISSEto mark his works.
786 Simone Martini probably trained in the studio of Sienas foremost painter during the thirteenth century. At age thirty-seven he married the daughter of another noted Sienese artist. Combining Byzantine tendencies such as abstract gold backgrounds with simple and elegant Gothic forms, his work contributed to the development of the International style. By age thirty-three, Martini achieved great fame and influence far beyond the walls of his native Siena. The king of France, then ruler of Naples, invited him to Naples to paint at the court. Toward the later part of Martinis career, the Franciscan friars in Assisi summoned him to paint the life of Saint Martin in the lower basilica of Saint Francis. His last years were spent in Avignon, France, then the seat of the exiled papacy.
719 Stefano di Giovanni was a painter who trained both in Lombardy and with his father, the French artist Jean dArbois, active in the court of Philip the Bold, Duke of Burgundy. The artist is better known by the name that Giorgio Vasari called him--Stefano da Verona--referring to his many commissions in that city, including paintings in church interiors and on building facades. Primarily a fresco and panel painter, Stefanos only known illuminated manuscript commission is a choir book from which only six illuminations survive. Characteristic of Stefanos painting style are his softly modeled figures, his use of curving lines, and the fine gold highlights that articulate such details as landscape and figures drapery.
949 Continuing in his fathers profession as a sculptor, Simon Hurtrelle took advantage of the new opportunities offered by theAcadmie Royaleto study in Rome. From 1673 to 1682 he was apensionnaire,akin to a scholarship student, at theAcadmie de Francein Rome. Considered one of the most capable of the Acadmie students in Rome, he was admitted to the prestigious Italian Accademia di San Luca.In Rome, Hurtrelle worked on vases inspired byantiquemodels for the royal garden atVersailles. When he returned to France, he brought back theclassicizingstyle that he would use throughout his career. He continued working in the service ofLouis XIVat Versailles, the chteau de Marly, and the church of Les Invalides. Admitted to the Acadmie Royale in 1687, he became a full member only three years later, a remarkably short time for this accomplishment. He worked in bronze and marble and, like many of the othercourt artists, advised the king on acquisitions.
29 Gustave Le GrayMORE BOOKSTORE
676 Unlike many eighteenth-century clockmakers, Jean-Jacques Fiff never became a wealthy man. Despite holding an important position within hisguild, his fortune was modest, and his workshop contained only three clocks when he retired. His work was highly regarded by his contemporaries, as Fiffs clock movements were usually installed in cases of very high quality, made by well-known craftsmen. He used the titleClockmaker of the [Paris] Observatory,which probably meant that he was responsible for maintaining that buildings clocks. Fiff retired early, after the death of his wife in 1758. He was succeeded by five sons, four of whom became master clockmakers like their father.
1360 As an initiative to revive industry and the arts after the Wars of Religion, Henri IV, King of France established carpetmaking workshops. By 1671 the Savonnerie carpet factory, named for its new location in a former soapworks (savonmeans soap in French), had moved to the western outskirts of Paris. The carpets, produced primarily for the royal family, were constructed of fine, close woolen pile, of approximately ninety knots per square inch. A skilled craftsman had to work a full year to make about two and one-half yards (three square meters) of plain carpet and even longer to make more complex patterns.Although carpets made to cover floors and tables were the factorys mainstay, it also produced wall-hangings, panels for folding screens, upholstery, and copies of oil paintings. Since the government prohibited the import of carpets from the East, the Savonnerie factory flourished. Among other splendid presents, the king of France,Louis XV, gave Savonnerie carpets to theOttomansultan in 1742; he particularly wanted to impress the sultan with the quality and richness of French carpets, woven on this occasion with borders of gold thread.The Savonnerie was joined with the Gobelins tapestry manufactory in 1825. Carpet production continues today, both reproducing older designs and making newly commissioned works designed by contemporary artists.
848 Much of what is known about Jacques Chapelles career comes from court documents concerning a lawsuit against his business partner in the Rue de Charenton Manufactory, Adrien Pierre Mignon. The manufactory first hired Chapelle as an earthenware modeler and sculptor in 1745. Chapelle occasionally left to work in other manufactories, including those in Vincennes and Strasbourg. In 1748 he became co-owner and director of the Sceaux manufactory, eventually becoming sole owner in 1759. He leased the Sceaux enterprise in 1763 and returned to Rue de Charenton, where he became a partner with Mignon. Ten years later, Chapelle took advantage of a prolonged absence by Mignon to reorganize the factory, building a new kiln and changing formulas and designs. Mignon sued him in court and won, forcing Chapelle to hand over the management of the factory.
593 The Meleager Painter decorated pottery in thered-figure techniquein Athens from 420 to 390 B.C. As with most vase-painters, his real name is unknown and he is identified only by the stylistic traits of his work. He takes his name from his frequent portrayal of scenes of Meleager and Atalanta among groups of hunters. He was also fond ofDionysiacscenes. The Meleager Painter decorated a variety of shapes, especially large kraters. His work is marked by sloppy drawing and poorly proportioned bodies. His fondness for depicting lavish textiles led him to portray many figures in Eastern dress.
1284 Pietro Antonio Novelli considered himself a history painter--an artist creating ambitious, large-scale works for the nobility and the Church. But today, he is best known for his fanciful, often humorous, works on paper. Novelli produced designs for poetry, theater, and literature, moving effortlessly between pen and ink, watercolor, and on occasion, red chalk. His prodigious output as a draftsman reflected both a personal interest in literary culture (Novelli was affiliated with the Venetian Literary Academy) and the burgeoning publishing industry in eighteenth-century Venice. He also produced a remarkable number of preparatory drawings for paintings andaltarpieces.Novelli trained with the Venetian painter Giovanni Battista Pittoni but was equally influenced by Francesco Guardi and Giovanni Battista Tiepolo. In 1768, he was accepted as a member of the Accademia in Venice for which he painted anAllegory of the Arts.During the following decade, Novelli produced altarpieces andfrescoesthroughout northern Italy and hispatronsincluded Catherine the Great, empress of Russia. He settled in Rome around 1779 where he remained until the end of the century. Much of what is known about Novellis life and career comes from his memoirs, which were published posthumously in 1834.
1185 Andrea del Sarto, nicknamed Andrea of the tailor after his fathers occupation, was one of Florences leading artists in the early 1500s. Except for a visit to Rome around 1511, where his style gained greater monumentality, and a year-long stay in France in 1518, where he completed a few works at the invitation ofFranois I, he spent most of his life in Florence.Patronsadmired Andreas fluent elaboration of the HighRenaissancestyle and the natural expression of emotion in his mainly religious works. He used patches of colored light and shade to shape forms, rather than conceiving painting as colored drawing.In the early 1510s, Jacopo Pontormo, Rosso Fiorentino, and Giorgio Vasari, (who later maliciously slandered Andrea for lacking creative fire) trained in Andreas highly influential studio. His process of making a series of preparatory drawings before painting demonstrated his patient pursuit of perfection and became a pattern for later artists.In 1517 or 1518 he married a wealthy widow who had modeled for him for several years, both for portraits and for Madonnas. In the 1520s, he built a substantial house in Florence, and his style became more ideal and more polished.
36 In Focus: Doris UlmannMORE BOOKSTORE
1080 Filippino Lippi was so well renowned during his lifetime that shops in the center of Florence closed on the day of his burial. He began his training with his father, Fra Filippo Lippi, a well-regarded painter who had previously instructed Botticelli. After his fathers death in 1469, Lippis guardian took him to study under Botticelli, from whom Lippi derived his depiction of twisted fingers and exaggerated joints and veins. By the time he was thirty, Lippi himself was considered a reputable artist and began working for theMedicifamily. Lippi is best known for hisaltarpieces, innovative scenes with dynamic figures whose subtly defined expressions and gestures provoke contemplation, but he was also a prolific draftsman who made manypreparatory studiesfor both panel paintings andfrescoes. According to one scholar, more drawings have been attributed to Lippi than to any other artist of the 1400s, apart from Leonardo da Vinci. He may have left more drawings because he conceived such complex arrangements, often integrating figures withinillusionisticarchitecturaldevices.
394 The Master of the Llangattock Epiphany is one of at least eight artist active in a book of hours now in the Getty Museum. The Llangattock Hours itself is named after a previous owner, the baron Llangattock. The Master of the Llangattock Epiphany contributed a single miniature to the book, The Adoration of the Shepherds, a subject also known as the Epiphany. The artist likely lived in Bruges.
1000 The Master of the Brussels Initials was an anonymous illuminator who began his career in the late 1300s in a prominent workshop in Bologna. His name comes from the fifteen historiated initials he painted in a book of hours , now in Brussels, commissioned by Jean, duc de Berry.The Masters career developed parallel to the growth of international workshops active in book production in the late Middle Ages. After enjoying a successful career in Bologna for more than a decade, he moved to the Ile-de-France, where he adapted the more pastel and subtle colors of French court illumination. To the many manuscripts that he decorated in France, he introduced not only stocky Bolognese figure types but also an exuberant style of border decoration teeming with large acanthus leaves, frolicking putti, and amusing zoomorphic figures. The mix of Italian and French elements in this artists work epitomizes the character of European court painting around 1400, appropriately called the International style.
1180 Like many European artists of the early 1600s, Bartolomeo Cavarozzi was greatly influenced by Caravaggios innovative and forceful paintings. Emulating Caravaggios commitment to realism and use of dramatic contrasts of light and shade, Cavarozzi developed his own variation of Caravaggism.Cavarozzi spent his formative years in Rome. He lived with an aristocratic family, in their home near the Pantheon, and studied at an art academy. During this period, he came into contact with the painter, Cristoforo Roncalli. Cavarozzis earliest known paintings show Roncallis influence and suggest that he may have trained with him. But by around 1610, Cavarozzi had come under the influence of Caravaggio, many of whose paintings could be seen in Rome.In 1617, Cavarozzi traveled to Madrid. The works he executed in Spain display the substantial, naturalistic figures and use of raking light and darkness found in Caravaggios work. Yet Cavarozzi developed his own distinctive style. He avoided the overtly dramatic presentation of many of Caravaggios followers, instead favoring more tender, restrained figures. He returned to Rome in 1618 and died in 1625 at the age of about thirty-five.
693 Trained as a wood framegilder, Hippolyte-Auguste Collard specialized in industrial imagery as a photographer. He set up his first photography studio in January 1856. During theSecond Empire, the reign ofNapoleon IIIin France, he ran a photography studio for twenty years, producing sequential photographs of bridges, railroads, and aqueducts. The Ministry of Agriculture, Commerce, and Public Works was his most important and consistentpatron; from 1857 to 1870 Collard photographed every bridge constructed in Paris by the ministry. He also documented the expansion of the railroad in France, competing with douard-Denis Baldus for that commission. In 1867 Collard sold his studio to his son.
760 So lamented James Wallace Black about the demands placed upon his chosen profession. After trying his luck as a painter in Boston, he turned to photography, beginning as adaguerreotypeplate polisher. His career was marked by experimentation and innovation; as might be deduced from the above quotation, it did not include portraits. In collaboration with the balloon navigator Samuel A. King, Black made the first successful aerial photographs in the United States in 1860. He later became the authority on the use of the magic lantern, a candlelight-powered projector that was a predecessor of todays slide projectors. By the late 1870s Blacks business largely consisted oflantern slideproduction, including his famous images of the Great Boston Fire of 1872.
1247 Anyone who was anyone who visited Rome simply had to have his or her portrait painted by Pompeo Batoni. His delicate technique, elegant draftsmanship, and ability to tastefully incorporate ancient sculptures and monuments into his pictures dovetailed perfectly with Europes vogue for theantique. A goldsmiths son, Batoni studied in Rome, basing his style in part on Raphael and on the art of antiquity. From 1735 he received many commissions foraltarpiecesas well as for mythological and historical pictures. He often took poses from real statues and used ancient literature as subject matter.Batonis sensibility was joyful and elegant, mirroring the carefree attitude of eighteenth-century society as a whole. It is said that more than 150 Englishmen alone sat for him. His sitters appreciated his polished precision and the air of informal modernity he created by placing them in semi-natural settings featuring Roman sculptures, architecture, or archaeological finds--often those they themselves had admired or even acquired. He painted three popes and many princes, and his clients included Catherine the Great of Russia. Batoni became curator of the papal collections, and his home was a meeting place for Romes intellectual and social elite.
1114 The anonymous artist known as the Master of Jean Rolin II worked in Paris as anilluminatorof books for aristocratic patrons, including members of the court ofCharles VII. He is named for illuminations in numerous manuscripts made for the cardinal-bishop of Autun, Jean Rolin II. As is often true of medieval artistic styles, several artists may have worked in the manner of the Master of Jean Rolin II. His work is associated with the increasingly specialized Parisian workshops of book production that developed in response to the growing commissions from the laity and the thriving University of Paris.The artist probably learned his craft in Flanders, Paris, or Burgundy. From 1445 to 1465, he worked in Paris, collaborating with other anonymous artists on many books including theHours of Simon de Varie. While his art reflects the interest innaturalismtypical of northern European art of the 1400s, his figures remain slightly stiff and doll-like. In this quality and in facial types, the work of this master anticipated the style of the Matre Franois, the leading Parisian illuminator of the next generation.
1357 Johann Heinrich Fuseli used to dab his beastly brush into the oil, and sweeping round thepalettein the dark, take up a great lump of white, red, or blue, as it might be and plaster it over a shoulder or face. . . . I found him the mostgrotesquemixture of literature, art, scepticism, indelicacy, profanity, and kindness, remembered a former student.A painters son, Fuseli grew up immersed inclassicalliterature and surrounded by Zurichs great thinkers, learning from a young age the kinship between painting and poetry. At eight he began copying his fathers engravings.Ordained as a clergyman in 1761-a career his father chose-Fuseli was forced out of Zurich for denouncing a dishonest magistrate. After touring Germany, he moved to London, whereSir Joshua Reynoldsencouraged him to paint.From 1770 to 1778, Fuseli taught himself in Rome. He copied Michelangelos Sistine Chapelfrescoes, drawn to the expressive style and the sometimes disturbing imagery. He also painted tragic or violent situations from literature, particularly Shakespeare and Milton, populated by stylized figures with exaggerated movements.Returning to England, he renamed himself Henry Fuseli. Critical successes brought international acclaim, despite his unusually unrestrained, agitated approach. In 1799 Fuseli was named aRoyal Academyprofessor, and he became curator there in 1804.
902 The Master of the Llangattock Hours is the primary artist of abook of hoursnow in the Getty Museum. The Llangattock Hours is named after the Baron Llangattock who owned themanuscriptin the twentieth century. The artist was active in the generation following the renowned panel painterJan van Eyckand was greatly influenced by him, at times directly coping his compositions and figural groupings. The figures painted by the Master of the Llangattock Hours are small and stiffly drawn, and set in rolling landscapes or slightly awkward architecture. The artistspalettetends to feature dense colors and little or no indication of the play of light.The Master of the Llangattock Hours was probably based in Bruges, given the artists reliance on Eychian compositions, participation in the final campaign of the Turin-Milan Hours, and collaboration with other artists based in that city, like Willem Vrelant.
1033 When Jean-Louis Morin started work at age twenty-one at the VincennesPorcelainManufactory, he was described as five foot four inches high, with red hair, shifty eyes and nearly white [skin]...and freckles, wearing a wig, with an ugly body. The son of an army surgeon, Morin studied surgery before changing his profession to porcelain painter. According to the factorys enrollment register, he started with an adequate knowledge of drawing but had little talent for the more difficult task of applying colors. After a couple of years of practice, however, he was making progress with his use of colors and his talents and work [had] improved.Morin first practiced on vases and tea wares, painting cherubs on clouds or in landscapes. He advanced to become one of the factorys leading figure painters, specializing in battle scenes, military encampments, seascapes, and harbor scenes. The majority of his work was painted on tea and useful wares, as well as on flower and ornamental vases. Morin signed his works with a scrollingM or m.
1117 Thomas Eakins spent virtually his entire life in and around Philadelphia, except for a three-and-a-half-year period between 1866 and 1870 when he was an art student in Paris. Primarily a painter and sculptor, Eakins did not make photographs for exhibition. He made private portraits of family and friends, scientific documents, and used his photographs as teaching tools for his art classes and his work in other media.Should men make only the statues of men to be looked at by men, while the statues of women should be made by women to be looked at by women only? Should the he-painters draw the horses and bulls, and the she-painters...the mares and cows?So Eakins defended his predilection for the nude studies in non-formal settings that make up the bulk of his photographic work. The use of these photographs in the classroom eventually led to Eakinss dismissal as Director of Instruction at the PennsylvaniaAcademyof Fine Arts in 1886. Interestingly enough, his paintings and sculpture rarely included nude figures, and his desire to evoke a realisticclassicismwas more successfully achieved in his photographs.
975 On his 1531 tax return, Sodoma listed among his possessions a monkey, a raven, an owl, a peacock, over thirty grown children, and three wicked brutes, that is, three women. Long before the concept of a Bohemian lifestyle existed, he perfected an anti-middle-class way of living. According to Giorgio Vasari, Giovanni Antonio Bazzi received the nickname Sodoma because he always surrounded himself with boys and beardless youths whom he loved beyond measure.A shoemakers son, Sodoma dominated Sienese painting and worked successfully throughout Italy. After learning the rudiments of painting in his hometown, he saw Leonardo da Vincis art in Milan around 1497 and soon incorporated hissfumatoeffects. Sodoma lived in Siena for about eight years, then went to Rome in 1508, where he frescoed a ceiling at the Vatican.By 1529 Sodoma was a kind of official painter to the Sienese Republic. Eight years later he was working beyond its borders, but he resettled there around 1545.
1208 When Max Liebermann exhibitedWomen Plucking Geesein Berlin, critics branded him an apostle of ugliness. So began his career as a painter, draftsmen, printmaker and collector, spanning more than fifty years.The son of a German Jewish businessman, Liebermann began his art studies in 1866. Like the Realist painters he greatly admired--especially Gustave Courbet and Jean-Franois Millet--Liebermann often painted rural laborers and scenes of everyday life. Believing that painting should be the exploration of art as the honest study of nature, Liebermann hoped that his unflinching depictions of the working classes would bring about social reform.Liebermann was the leading artist in Berlin by the early 1890s. He became a much sought-after portraitist and also painted landscapes. Liebermann also amassed an important collection of Impressionist paintings and brought new attention toImpressionismin Germany. In 1920, he was appointed president of the Prussian Academy of Art, the highest artistic institution of the Weimar Republic. In 1932, after Nazi attacks on him intensified, Liebermann resigned this post. A year later, the Nazis began confiscating his paintings from museums and private collections.
1135 Still life painter Willem van Aelst learned his specialty from his uncle, a painter in Delft. In 1643 he enrolled in the Delft paintersguildand later in the 1640s worked in France. Van Aelst then traveled to Florence, where he served ascourt painterto Ferdinando II deMedici, Grand Duke of Tuscany. His signature,Guill[er]mo van Aelst,reflects his Italian experience. Ironically, the Dutch nature painters that he met in Florence, known for their highly finished cabinet pictures, may have influenced Van Aelsts detailed, smooth style.Van Aelst settled in Amsterdam in 1657, becoming famous for his ornate still lifes. The fine glassware, silver goblets, fruit, and flowers display the influence of Willem Kalfs luxuriouscompositions. Van Aelst was one of the earliest Dutch artists to paint an asymmetrically arranged bouquet. Van Aelsts other specialty was game pictures; he painted over sixty of them between 1652 and 1681. Each contains the hunters quarry along with scrupulous studies of guns, leather pouches, powder horns, and other hunting accessories set on marble slabs.Still life painter Rachel Ruysch was one of his pupils.
934 The son of a wood-sculptor, Louis-Lopold Boilly came from a modest background. As a teenager, he studied painting in the provinces, moving to Paris in 1785 only after ascertaining the marketability of his genre scenes. He established himself as a painter of slightly naughty images, which were especially popular with patrons who enjoyed the mischievous side of life. In 1794, an erotic painting elicited accusations of obscenity--an offense that carried the threat of prison and harsh penalties. A keen observer of human behavior, Boilly turned his attention to more public scenes, depicting the social customs of Parisians at the Salon, on the promenade, at the billiard table. He meticulously recorded facial details and gestures, and his depictions of costumes and textiles are fascinating as a chronicle of fashion. Boillys paintings and drawings, often tinged with humor, showcase the artists witty interpretation of urban life.
71 In Focus: Carleton E. WatkinsCarleton Watkins in YosemiteMORE BOOKSTORE
1185 Guido Reys adventures as a mountaineer led to his photographic career. In 1893, following several successful climbs and a book about his mountain-climbing experiences, he began to photograph mountain peaks, earning a silver medal from the Italian Alpine Club. He later went on to compose Greek and Romanclassicalcompositionsin thePictorialiststyle, researching thePompeiiexcavations and visiting the museums of Naples in order to insure accuracy in his depictions.Called without a doubt the best Italian art photographer by a contemporary, Rey began to make composite images based onOld Masterpainters, particularly in the Dutch School style of Pieter de Hooch andJan Vermeer. After Rey made a business trip to the United States, Alfred Stieglitz published his photographs in the influential journalCamera Workin 1908. Writing about the debate over the artistic merit of photography in 1902, Rey proclaimed:It would seem that in the end a breath of art had finally fallen on the much dishonored child of Daguerre...After a thousand trials, photography has acquired a new consciousness of the noble heights it might obtain, and it now seems near an ideal of beauty long since abandoned.
1677 Like many artists who came of age in the wake of Impressionism, Edvard Munch began his career painting closely observed scenes of the world around him. But Munchs work took on an ever-deepening emphasis on subjectivity and an active rejection of visible reality. The unique and highly personal style he developed to convey mood, emotion, or memory would greatly influence the course of twentieth-century art and in particular, the development of Expressionism.The second of five children, Munch lost both his mother and favorite sister to tuberculosis before his fourteenth birthday. Having abandoned the study of engineering due to frequent illness, Munch decided to become an artist. His early work revealed the influence ofplein-airpainters like Monet and Renoir. In 1889, Munch began to spend long periods in Paris. Exposed to the work of Gauguin and other French Symbolists--both painters and writers--Munch developed a simplified language of bold color and sinuous line to express his view of human suffering. He grappled with dark, unsettling themes like sickness and death, depression and alienation.In the 1890s Munch dedicated himself to an ambitious multi-canvas series calledThe Frieze of Life. Though the series was never completed, the twenty-two canvases Munch did produce extended his obsessive exploration of sexuality and mortality.The Frieze of Lifeincluded Munchs iconic image of modern angst,The Scream; as with many of his paintings, he created several versions of it. Following a nervous breakdown in 1908 and subsequent rehabilitation, Munch largely turned away from images of private despair and anguish and created more colorful, optimistic paintings.
1097 Tiziano Aspetti belonged to the second generation of sculptors working in the dramaticmanierastyle in Venice. Named for his uncle, a successful sculptor, Tiziano was born in the Italian city of Padua in 1565 to a famous family of founders. He learned his skillful bronze casting technique in the family business and then studied sculpture with Girolamo Campagna, the most prominent sculptor in Venice between 1580 and 1600. With Campagna and then on his own, Tiziano contributed to large-scale public commissions in Venice, Padua, and Tuscany.For most of his life, however, Tiziano worked for one person, Giovanni Grimani, a distinguished church official known for his collection of antiquities and his patronage of artists. Tiziano restored Grimanis ancient statues and made many pieces for his patrons home. At the end of his life, Tiziano moved to Pisa to live in the household of Grimanis great-nephew. Living near the famous marble quarries of Massa-Carrara, Tiziano branched out from the bronze work in which he had made his reputation and worked as a stone sculptor until his death in 1606.
1213 Born of Dutch parents who fled to London to escape religious persecution, Cornelis Jansen van Ceulen probably trained in the northern Netherlands. Around 1618 he established himself as a portrait painter in London. His signed or monogrammed portraits number several hundred; he is the first English-born painter known to have made so many. Anthony van Dycks dazzling manner influenced him, but Jansens style remained more straightforward, a somewhat conservative approach that appealed to hispatronsin the higher, but not the highest, social circles. Typically, he painted bust-length representations with sitters looking directly out of the picture, giving close attention to accurately renderings of clothing. Jansen also paintedminiaturesin oil on copper, some of which were reduced copies of larger paintings.When the English Civil War began in 1643, Jansen moved to the northern Netherlands, where he helped to popularize van Dycks airy, liquid touch. He stopped first in Middelburg and later in Amsterdam, The Hague, and finally Utrecht. His half-length and three-quarter-length portraits were notable for their elegance and for his characteristically precise rendering of his sitters features and clothing.
1425 Confident, extravagant and rebellious, El Greco hired musicians to play while he ate and prided himself on his refusal to comply with his clients demands. Though he settled in Toledo, Spain, the artist known as The Greek signed paintings with his Greek name, Domenikos Theotokopoulos, and was forever influenced by his birthplace. Crete was a center for the Byzantine artistic tradition, concerned more with abstraction and pattern than with recording natural appearances. From 1568 to 1577, El Greco lived in Venice and Rome, where Titians broad brushwork and bright colors, Tintorettos sweeping movement, and Michelangelos monumental figures reshaped his Byzantine heritage without replacing it.According to tales, when Pope Pius proposed covering MichelangelosLast Judgmentnudes, El Greco alienated many by offering to paint another mural, equally good, if they demolished Michelangelos. He soon left for Spain. Failing to win favor at the Madrid court, he settled in Toledo, Spains cultural and religious center. There he developed his trademark style-elongated figures, ecstatically free brushwork, expressive lighting, and acid color-a manner so personal that his assistants never attempted to follow his example.Acclaimed for his penetrating portraits, El Greco also received ecclesiastical commissions throughout Spain, including designing altarpieces. His paintings of Toledo are among Europes first pure landscapes.
1383 Though Drer lamented Germanys medieval conception of artists, Italian Renaissance ideas first came north in a powerful way through him. Drer initially trained in Nuremberg as a goldsmith, painter, and woodcutter. After visiting Venice in 1495, he intensely studied mathematics, geometry, Latin, and humanist literature. He expressed himself primarily through prints; painting was less profitable, and Lutheran church reformers disdained most religious artworks. Drers paintings are few and more traditional than his engravings and woodcuts. In 1498 he published the first book entirely produced by an artist,The Apocalypse, which included fourteen woodcuts illustrating the Book of Revelation. Its vivid imagery, masterly draftsmanship, and complex iconography established his reputation. After visiting Italy again from 1505 to 1507, Drers art assimilated Renaissance principles. Unlike his earlier, more Gothic woodcuts, Drers engravings of 1513 and 1514 suggest the influence of Italian chiaroscuro and were conceived in painterly terms, using a range of velvety tones rather than lines. His drawings include studies of hands, draperies, and costume, portraits, Madonnas, and intimate and detailed watercolor studies of nature. Despite the impressive scope of his workshop, Drer left no direct successors, though his easily transportable prints were influential throughout Europe.
979 Long after he died, scholars named this artist Mair von Landshut using the signatures and inscriptions on his fewer than fifty works. Almost nothing is known of his life, but his last dated drawing was from 1504. The Munich tax records of 1490 list a Mair maler von Freising (Mair, painter from Freising), and the style ofaltarpiecepanels in a Munich church from around 1490 corroborates his presence there. He painted a lunette panel with Passion Scenes for the sacristy of Freising Cathedral in 1495, and he also may have worked in northern Italy.Mairs artistic importance lies with his technical inventiveness on paper. He printed and drew on hand-tinted paper, then brushed on white and yellow highlights. His brilliant atmospheric and coloristic effects appeared nearly a decade before Lucas Cranach the Elder and another artist invented the visually richchiaroscurowoodcuttechnique. Mairs colored prints also may have inspired Albrecht Altdorfers drawings on colored paper.
556 Rinaldo da Siena is documented in Siena in 1274 and then again in 1278. He was a follower of the artist Cimabue, who was influenced by contemporary Byzantine painting, and a forerunner of Duccio, celebrated for the expressive emotional character of his work. He was active both as a painter and anilluminator. His few known works include a painted wood crucifix in the Museo Civico, San Gimignano, amanuscriptofThe Book of the Reign of Princes(Paris, Bibliotheque ntionale, Paris) and a manuscript of VegeziosMulomedicina(Florence, Biblioteca Laurenziana).
1320 In Italian, Bartolomeo Passarottis last name means little sparrow. His many works signed with a drawing of the little bird prove the existence of his thriving workshop in Bologna. Documented in Rome in 1551, Passarotti worked with an architect and then with Taddeo Zuccaro. Returning to Bologna around 1560, Passarotti established a museum for his small antiquities, which became a must-see for travelers passing through Bologna. He maintained his links to Rome as a portraitist of popes and cardinals, along with local people. FollowingManneristconventions of grace, he represented them in elongated form and with an attitude of dry elegance. Between 1575 and the early 1580s, Passarotti was Bolognas pre-eminent painter. He produced manyaltarpieceswhile also initiating a completely unique type ofgenre scene. Taking place mostly in butcher shops, these humorous yet poignant pictures combined almosttrompe-loeilstill lifes of meats with humancaricature. His pupil Agostino Carracci adopted a similar emphasis on genre paintings usingnaturalisticobservation.Praised by early biographers as a draftsman and engraver, Passarotti employed a distinctive cross-hatching. His anatomical interest in powerful, acrobatic figures, dramatically evident in his drawings, probably derived from Pellegrino Tibaldis Bolognese works.
1037 Few artists have been as reviled by their peers as Baccio Bandinelli. Megalomania, greed, social climbing--these were his most conspicuous characteristics. For Bandinelli, wealth, nobility, and literary prowess were ways of proving that artists were more than mere craftsmen. Unfortunately, rather than concentrating on creating his best art, the talented sculptor squandered his time and gifts scheming to receive every commission offered by theMedici, then often spent inadequate time executing them.Bandinellis father, a prominent Florentine goldsmith, was his most influential teacher, exposing him to Leonardo da Vincis drawings and sculpture. Bandinelli studied ancient and contemporary sculpture, but most of all he studied Michelangelo, becoming first his imitator, then his rival.Bandinellis greatest talent wasdisegno,that combination of design and drawing underlyingItalian Renaissanceart. He was also a gifted teacher. He founded one of the earliest academies at theVaticanin 1531 and created another in Florence around 1550.
855 Born in New York to immigrant parents, Arthur Rothstein began to photograph in college at Columbia University, where he founded the universitys camera club. Upon graduation, Roy Stryker hired him as the first photographer on the staff of theFarm Security Administration, where he became famous for his images of the Dust Bowl during the Great Depression. Five years later, in 1940, he became a staff photographer forLookmagazine; he later became its director of photography, lasting until the magazines demise in 1971. The following year he joinedParademagazine, serving in various capacities until his death. During that period he also taught photography and was a founding member of the American Society of Magazine Photographers, editing its in-house periodical for a year. Rothstein authored seven books about photojournalism that featured his images.
1719 Jean-Baptiste Stouf did not win the covetedPrix de Romecompetition in 1769--he achieved second place--but nonetheless he still found his way to Rome and obtained a room at theAcadmie de France. The young sculptor returned to Paris in 1776 and was eventually approved by theAcadmie Royalein 1784. A year later, Stouf was received as a full member. Stoufs Acadmie reception piece, depicting the DyingAbel, was widely praised at theSalonof 1785. Alongside this marble piece, Stouf exhibitedterracottastudies of the blind general Belisarius and an afflicted young woman.Stouf became best known for his commemorative portraits. In the 1700s, statues of virtuous and illustrious Frenchmen were extremely popular, both as records of public gratitude and to inspire the citizenry. Although Stouf looked toclassicalandBaroquesculpture for inspiration for his portraiture, his work also foreshadowed the Romantic sensibility of the 1800s. Among his known works, Stouf created studies for a planned monument to the philosopher Jean-Jacques Rousseau, marble statues of Saint Vincent de Paul andRenaissancescholar Michel de Montaigne, and a portrait of Abbot Suger. Several of Stoufs portraits were originally commissioned for a series of statues called the Great Men of France, intended to line the Grande Galerie of theLouvre.In the early 1800s, French sculpture was dominated by the cool linearity of the Empire style. But Stouf did not conform to this severe style. Throughout his career, he sought to simplify forms and emphasized large, evenly textured shapes. Despite being somewhat out of step with Empire tastes, Stouf continued to receive official commissions and is known to have exhibited at the Salons of 1817 and 1819.
605 Scholars believe that Nivardus of Milan, who was active around the year 1000,illuminated manuscriptsfor the bishop of Milan in Lombardy, Italy, before being summoned to the Benedictineabbeyof Saint-Beno?t-sur-Loire, France.  A contemporary writer recorded that abbot Gauzlin, one of the great patrons of his time and half-brother to KingRobert the Pious, had Nivardus make a crucifix, described as of wonderful workmanship.  Nivardus probably also illuminated manuscripts while at Saint-Beno?t, including one commissioned by Robert the Pious and another that was given to Robert by the bishop of Beauvais.
1442 Jacques-Louis David studied drawing and the literary classics before being accepted into theAcadmie Royaleat the young age of eighteen. After eight years of struggle, he finally won the covetedPrix de Rome. Visits to ruins, exposure toNeoclassicaldoctrines, and study of Nicolas Poussinsclassicismencouraged him to adopt a style and subject matter derived from antiquity.Returning in Paris in 1780, David soon prospered. Large canvases ofclassicalthemes brought him election to the Acadmie Royale in 1784 and sensational success at the ParisSalonin 1785. His firm linear contours, even lighting, pure colors, and frieze-likecompositionwere admired, but more than his style was revolutionary. The paintings came to be regarded as a political manifesto for ending the corruption of an effete aristocracy and returning to the stern, patriotic morals attributed to republican Rome.TheRobespierreof the brush, David served in theFrench Revolutionarygovernment, painted portraits of its leaders, designed its republican festivals and funerals, and suffered imprisonment when the political winds shifted. Despite his impassioned earlier rhetoric-The artist must be a philosopher.... an artistic genius should have no other guide except the torch of reason-David handily transferred his loyalties toNapoleon Bonaparte, the new ruler of France. Exiled to Brussels after Napoleons fall from power, David continued to train young painters and draftsmen.
881 Jacques-Franois Micaud joined the SvresPorcelainManufactory when he was twenty-two years old. He worked there for over forty years, eventually becoming one of theiranciens peintres(senior painters)--a title conferring honor and distinction.On his arrival, the factory recorded his appearance: an oval face marked with small pox, brown eyes, and brown hair. The record also noted that he had entered the factory with a promising ability to draw and witnesses had also said that he was a wise boy.Micaud specialized at first in painting rich fabrics and roses. Over time, he became one of Svres most talented flower painters, decorating porcelain tea services and other objects with flower sprays, garlands, and patterned borders of foliage or ribbons. His initial wage of thirtylivresrose to one hundredlivresper month by 1774. Works painted by Micaud are marked with a small cross.
1415 Eccentric, egotistical, yet extremely sensitive,DanteGabriel Rossetti was a force to be reckoned with. Early on, he alternated between painting and poetry, but he is best known for founding the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood along with John Everett Millais. Rebelling against Englishacademicpaintings soft forms and what appeared to be a lax morality, the Brotherhood aspired to a crisp, emotional style embracing the purity and simplicity of Italian art before Raphael. Using minute detail and elaboratesymbolism, they painted from nature. Rossetti expanded the groups aims by linking poetry, painting, and social idealism and by interpreting the term Pre-Raphaelite as synonymous with a romanticized medieval past. In the second phase of the movement in the mid-1850s, Rossetti gained a powerful but exactingpatronin the art critic John Ruskin.Throughout the 1850s and 1860s, Rossetti painted and drew mostly languid and sensuous female portraits, using his lover Elizabeth Siddal almost exclusively as a model. These paintings later influenced the Symbolists and also proved popular with collectors: Rossetti grew affluent enough to employ studio assistants to make copies.Rossetti published his complete poems in 1870, after exhuming them from Siddals grave. Following a physical and mental collapse and a suicide attempt, he recovered enough to continue painting and writing but only as a semi-invalid and recluse.
1287 [S]ometimes he would take weeks over a single foot, biographer Baldinucci wrote about Carlo Dolcis painstaking painting process. According to Baldinucci, Dolcis final decline was triggered by Luca Giordanos 1682 visit to Florence. Luca joked that his own rapid style had brought him a fortune, but Dolci would starve if he kept taking so long. Already suffering from depression, Dolci plunged deeper into despair.Dolcis artistic training began at age nine in Jacopo Vignalis studio, where he learned to combine Vignalis emotive approach with the elegant design and bright local color of the Florentine style. Dolci probably also studied Netherlandish painting. Intensely religious, Dolci stated his firm intention to paint only works that would inspire the fruits of Christian piety in those who saw them. He specialized in devotional works, although he also earned his international reputation through the portraits and still lifes he intended for his sophisticatedpatrons. Dolci captured detail in lavish textiles, jewelry, and the face and hands. Hisevangelistportraits display his typical polished surface finish, which was probably influenced by Agnolo Bronzino, as well as aCaravaggesquechiaroscuroand Correggios softness. Dolci had a large studio; his daughter was also a painter.
1180 Antonio del Castillo y Saavedra was one of the few distinctive SpanishBaroquepainters who spent his career outside of the countrys cosmopolitan centers of Madrid or Seville. Born in Crdoba, he received his early training with his father and later studied with a painter of religious figures. By 1638 Castillo was described as a master painter. He specialized in religious works infrescoand oil on canvas. Many of his paintings still can be seen in and around Crdoba, particularly in the cityscathedral. In the solidity and weight of his figure modeling, Castillo displayed the influence of Sevillan painter Francisco de Zurbarn, while Bartolom Estebn Murillos style contributed to his preference for muted tones. Castillo was a prolific draftsman, with a characteristic style of vigorous strokes in quill pen andsepiaink and in red chalk. His peers admired and collected his drawings during his lifetime. Artists and students, who regularly copied Castillos carefully finished drawings, also studied his technique. In subject matter, his countryside scenes and studies of animals were unique in Spanish Baroque draftsmanship. He often signed sheets with the interlaced monogramAC.
1704 As early as the sixth-century, artisans in the city of Limoges, France began working with enamel, the art of fusing fine glass particles to metal to create lustrous, jewel-like effects. Over subsequent centuries, workshops in the Limoges region became famous for distinctive techniques and styles, as well as for stunning workmanship.The earliest techniques of enameling date to antiquity, and were developed by goldsmiths. Byzantine and Celtic artisans perfected cloisonn, a technique in which tiny strips of metal are attached to a flat surface to form raised walls that hold the molten glass. The overall effect is not unlike stained glass, which also evolved in Europe during the Middle Ages.By the early 1100s, copper became the preferred surface for a technique called champlev, in which molten glass is contained in areas incised or etched into the metal surface. During the twelfth-century, Limoges became a highly commercial center for enamel production. Workshops specialized in decorating ecclesiastical objects such as altarpieces, shrines, and reliquaries for use throughout Western Europe. Limoges enamel became renowned for its cool hues of lapis, cobalt, and turquoise, accented by reds, greens, and white.After the sacking of Limoges in 1371 during the Hundred Years War, the craft of enameling nearly died out. The region gradually revived its industry as specific artisan families such as the Pnicaud, Limousin, and Reymond created distinct styles within the craft. By the early sixteenth-century, Limoges artisans introduced a technique called enamel painting in which multiple layers of molten glass are painted on, and then over-painted with white, to create a subdued color scheme.
1173 Jan van de Velde II came from an artistic family. His father was a celebratedcalligrapherand teacher and he was the nephew of Esaias van de Velde, an important landscape painter. Jan also specialized in landscapes but made his mark as a printmaker and draftsman. His engraved landscapes were often based on drawings from nature and his emphasis onnaturalisticdetail and simplecompositioninfluenced other artists including Rembrandt Harmensz. van Rijn.Raised in Rotterdam, Van de Velde trained as an engraver with the artist Jacob Matham in Haarlem. In 1614, he joined HaarlemsGuildof St. Luke, and began producing prints in series. At this early stage in his career, Van de Velde was among Haarlems most prolific artists and had produced more than a hundred landscape etchings by 1617 (at the age of twenty-four).In addition to landscapes, Van de Velde created more than fifty portrait prints as well asgenre scenes, book illustrations, and paintings. As his career progressed, he began to base his engraved output on the work of other artists including that of his cousin Esaias. He also worked as a teacher and his own son, Jan Van de Velde III, was a still-life painter.
1319 A noted professors son, the erudite Jost Amman chose printmaking over scholarship but always maintained contacts inhumanistcircles. He may have apprenticed in Basel or Zurich and probably also studied in Paris and Lyon.In 1561 Amman settled in Nuremberg, where he worked with Virgil Solis. After Soliss death in 1562, Amman began a lifelong partnership with Soliss publisher, adapting himself to every task and changing his style according to his employers demands. The eras most prolific book illustrator, Amman illustrated at least fifty books for him alone. These projects included biblicalcompositions, widely reprinted scenes of tradespeople, and an artists instruction book; many served as pattern books for later artists. He also made ornamental designs and etchings, including over a hundred portraits for an aristocratic Nuremberg family. A pupil said that Ammans drawings from one four-year period would have filled a hay wagon.By 1581 Amman was famous. He painted theElectorLudwig VI on his deathbed in Heidelberg, designed the Wrzburg University church portal, and taught drawing to an English earl. He also designed stained glass and jewelry. Still he lived in constant poverty. Shortly before his death, knowing that estate taxes would bankrupt his family, he plead with rich relatives in Zurich for help.
843 Antoine Foullet specialized in the production of elaborate clock cases. He worked as an independentbnisteuntil he was almost forty years old, when he finally registered with hisguildas a masterbniste.The inventory taken in 1775 after his death shows that his workshop was still in full production at the end of his life: there were six work benches equipped with tools, as well as a large stock of clock cases. The inventory also notes several cases made entirely of bronze. As strict guild regulations forbadebnistesfrom working in bronze, it seems that Foullet was selling merchandise outside his trade.Foullet produced works almost exclusively in theRococostyle, although his inventory mentions works  la Grec (in Greek taste), a term that would apply to the design of the Getty Museums clock, a fine example of this earlyNeoclassicalstyle.
1274 The only clues about Bartolomeo Venetos life are the signatures, dates, and inscriptions on his paintings. Working in the northern Italian regions of the Veneto and Lombardy, he began as a painter of small, devotional paintings and developed into a fashionable portraitist. He probably trained with Venetian master Gentile Bellini. His earliest dated painting, aVirgin and Child,also shows the influence of Giovanni Bellinis paintings of that subject. In his early career Bartolomeo frequently copied and signed religious works by other painters from northeastern Italy such as the Bellinis.Bartolomeo worked at the Este court in Ferrara from 1505 to 1508, where he developed his style in the rich culture of theRenaissancecourt there. By 1520 he was a successful portrait painter in Milan, depicting fashionable young men in contemporary costume. Leonardo da Vinci had revived portraiture there and Bartolomeos style displays Leonardos influence. A strongchiaroscurogives structural coherence and a new psychological suggestiveness to his paintings, as in the Getty MuseumsLady Playing a Lute.Bartolomeos sitters are characterized by elaborate costumes depicted in meticulous detail. In his late work, softer, more fluid handling shows his awareness of Titians portraiture.
1134 One of the first women artists to practice the art of still life painting, Giovanna Garzoni pursued her career with intensity. Garzonis paintings were so well liked that, according to one writer, she could sell her work for whatever price she wished. One of Garzonis earliest works, a 1625 calligraphy book, includes capital lettersilluminatedwith fruits, flowers, birds, and insects. These subjects were to become her specialty, andtemperaonvellumwas her preferred medium. Garzonis refined interpretation of plants and animals suited the taste of her aristocraticpatrons, like the Medici family, and could be found decorating their villas.Scholars have speculated about Garzonis early training, and though none have come to any firm conclusions, they all cite Jacopo Ligozzi as an influence. Like Garzoni, Ligozzi painted botanical and zoological specimens for theMedici court. In 1666, Garzoni made a will bequeathing her entire estate to the paintersguildin Rome, the Accademia di San Luca, on condition that they erect her tomb in their church. She died four years later, after enjoying a life of steady work and constant success.
1301 From a young age, John Everett Millais showed a prodigious natural talent for drawing, and his parents groomed him to become an artist. By age nine he had already won two awards for his drawing. He entered theRoyal Academyat age eleven--the youngest student ever to be admitted. As he matured, Millais began to reject the Academys conservative teachings, which held the art of the HighRenaissanceas the ideal. With his fellow studentDanteGabriel Rossetti and others, Millais formed the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood, a group of artists dissatisfied with the state of British art. They believed that better models for painting could be found in the artists who preceded Raphael, whose work they considered more true to nature and more honestly crafted, and they painted with meticulous attention to the description of natural detail, at times employing willfully awkward or navecompositions. Looking for new subject matter, Millais drew from the writings of English writers such as William Shakespeare and theRomanticpoets.The Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood was short-lived, and Millais soon became a major figure in the art world establishment, eventually receiving knighthood. His colorful images of lovers or pretty children and strong portraits of powerful men were extremely popular withVictoriansociety.
48 In Focus: William Henry Fox TalbotMORE BOOKSTORE
1141 Born to a wealthyProtestantfamily and trained in his native Lige as a goldsmith and engraver, Theodor de Bry fled the Netherlands around 1570 due to religious persecution. After moving to the free city of Strasbourg, de Bry left for England in 1586. There he made some of his best-known works, engraved copies after scenes from the New World.While de Bry was in England, his family moved permanently to Frankfurt and set up a publishing business there. When he returned in 1589, he and his sons illustrated ten volumes of American travel literature with his New World engravings, published from 1590 to 1618. Most Europeans came to know the costumes and customs of the American Indians and the historical events of the New World through de Brys prints, however distorted. He used European standards for landscape and figure types and, as a Lutheran, emphasized the cruelty of the Catholic Spanish conquerors toward the Peruvian natives. De Bry also published a series of engraved portraits of famous men. In addition to many book illustrations, he produced a large number of other prints, particularly designs for jewelry and goldsmith work.
1217 The son of a ships captain, Ralston Crawfords life and career were marked by wanderlust. He worked at various jobs before becoming a sailor himself, from 1926 until 1927. After studying art in Los Angeles, he briefly held a job as an illustrator at Walt Disneys studio. Crawford spent the next decade traveling widely and studying art, meeting with early success in exhibiting his work. Primarily a painter, his style is best described as Precisionism, a style popular in the 1920s and 1930s and characterized by the depiction of sharply defined forms.Crawford took up photography around 1937 and continued to photograph during his travels, making the same kind of sharply focused images in photographs that he did in his paintings. In 1950 he began to photograph and document the lives of black jazz musicians in New Orleans, Louisiana, a subject and city to which he would frequently return. Additionally, Crawford held many teaching positions throughout his career, from Honolulu to Buffalo. In 1969, he premiered the first of several short films,Various Depths.An energetic man despite the onset of cancer discovered in 1971, Crawford continued to travel extensively and create until his death at age seventy-one.
465 The Chiusi Painter painted vases in theblack-figure techniquein Athens in the period about 520 to 510 B.C. He decorated a wide variety of vessel shapes, including amphorae, kraters, and hydriai. The battle of Herakles and Triton appeared frequently in his work.As with most ancient artists, the true name of the Chiusi Painter is unknown; he is identified only by the stylistic traits of his work. Scholars named him for a vase he painted, now in the Chiusi Museum.
1021 Lisette Model began her creative life as a student of music. Throughavant-gardecomposer Arnold Schnberg, with whom she studied piano, she became exposed to theExpressionistpainters of early twentieth-century Vienna. She never formally studied photography but took it up in the 1930s while living in Paris. An early piece of advice received from a colleague--Never photograph anything you are not passionately interested in--became her motto.Models images can be categorized as street photography, a style which developed after the invention of the hand-held camera, which made quick, candid shots possible. Through her own complicated personal history, she found intensely empathetic connections with her disparate subjects.Model eventually settled in New York, where she met with quick success as a commercial photographer forHarpers Bazaarmagazine and as an artist with her work exhibited at the Museum of Modern Art. For thirty years she taught photography in New York, where she instructed and befriended Diane Arbus.
1206 At nineteen, Philippe de Champaigne began working with Nicolas Poussin on the decoration of theLuxembourg Palace. Seven years later, after commissions fromCardinalRichelieu, King Louis XIII, and the queen mother Marie de Mdicis, Champaigne was appointed royal painter to the queen mother. He received numerous commissions for royal portraits, religious paintings for Parisian churches and for individual devotion, and decorative projects for royal residences. His prominence put him among the founding members of theAcadmie Royale de Peinture et de Sculpture, where he became a professor in 1653. A brilliant color sense, monumental conception of the figure, and sober use ofcompositioncharacterized Champaignes religious works and his memorable psychological portraits. Peter Paul Rubens and Simon Vouet influenced his use of strong colors, but the ascetic Champaigne scorned these artists decorative qualities. Both his contemporaries and modern scholars have attributed the severe plainness of his portraits to his Jansenist beliefs. His religious convictions also affected his choice of subjects: during the last decade of his career, he chose to paint only his family and friends and religious themes.
1689 For more than three decades, Mitch Epstein has made large-scale color photographs that capture moments of transcendent beauty in everyday life, whether in small-town America or abroad. He observes complex situations, with a sense of irony but also empathy toward his subjects. Epsteins projects have ranged from post-war Vietnam to his familys business and its relationship to the town he grew up in, to American habits of energy consumption. Epstein is also a cinematographer and production designer, with credits that includeSalaam BombayandMississippi Masala.In the early 1970s, Epstein attended several colleges: Union College, New York, Rhode Island School of Design, Providence; and The Cooper Union, New York, where he studied with photographer Garry Winogrand. By the mid-1970s, he began to travel, embarking on a photographic trip across the United States, as well as trips to Europe, the Caribbean, Japan, and Southeast Asia. In 1978, he journeyed to India producing the book,In Pursuit of Indianine years later. Six trips to Vietnam from 1992 to 95 are reflected in Epsteins publication,In Vietnam: A Book of Changes,whichreveals the complexity of a culture molded by French colonialism, the American war, and western consumer culture.The Cityis a reflection on Epsteins adopted hometown, New York City.Family Business(2000-2003), on the other hand, records the demise of his fathers two businesses-a retail furniture store and a rental real estate empire-in his original hometown of Holyoke, Massachusetts. Epsteins latest effort--AmericanPower--concerns energy production in the United States, a country that consumes a disproportionate amount of the worlds natural resources.
1079 The fourth of eleven children of a chemist and druggist, Richard Dadd began his artistic training at the age of thirteen. He studiedminiaturepainting, portraiture, and landscapes and was accepted to the prestigiousRoyal Academyfor further study after turning twenty. Academy professors remarked on his gentleness, cheerful good nature, and great promise as an artist.DaddsNeoclassicalpaintings of ancient subjects, theatrical in concept, followed in the tradition of Lawrence Alma Tadema. He painted scaled-down human figures in small, luminous landscapes of carefully rendered plants and flowers.In 1842 Dadd left England on a one-year drawing trip throughout Europe and the Middle East. Shortly after his return, he lost his sanity, as had three of his siblings. Dadd murdered his father, attempted to kill a stranger, and spoke of killing the pope and the emperor of Austria, insisting that the Egyptian god Osiris requested these acts. In 1843 the courts and his family committed him to an insane asylum, where he remained for the next forty-three years, continuing to paint.
1306 Christen Schjellerup Kbke, the son of a baker, entered art school in Copenhagen at age eleven and studied there for ten years. He continued studying both with a teacher and from nature, first making sketches outdoors and later reworking them into oil paintings in his studio. Kbke combined an interest in light and atmosphere with an appreciation for Denmarks medieval monuments to create solemn architectural silhouettes. He also painted charming and intimate portraits of his family, friends, and fellow artists. In 1838 Kbke took his first trip abroad, visiting Dresden and Italy. Allying himself with theclassicaltradition of landscape painting inspired by Claude Lorrain, whom he greatly admired, he began altering small details to achieve sweeping, panoramiccompositions. Upon his return home, his Italian scenes found little favor. Despite his talent and the praise of various contemporaries, Kbke was never inundated with commissions. When he applied for admission to the prestigious Academy of Art in Copenhagen in 1846, he was rejected. He died of pneumonia two years later, and the Danish public paid little notice. At the end of the 1800s, scholars and the public began to appreciate Kbke, leading to his current reputation as the most internationally renowned Danish painter of his generation.
1194 After serving in a Bourbon government ministry, Camillo Miola renounced the career he disliked around 1861 and determined to become an artist. He studied in Naples, then visited Rome in 1864. In 1867, after passing through Florence and Milan, he arrived in Paris, where he and other artists from Naples achieved success at the Exposition Universelle.In Paris, the immensely successful French painter Ernest Meissonnier invited Miola to stay at his studio, where Miola painted several pictures. After a trip to England around 1868, Miola returned to Naples, where he remained for the rest of his life.Inspired by excavations atPompeiiand Herculanaeum, Miola painted dramatic subjects based on ancient Greece and Rome. Technically accomplished and rendered with apparent archaeological exactitude, his large canvases were highly successful. He exhibited throughout Europe and at the Saint Louis Worlds Fair in 1904.In the 1890s, Miola taught drawing in a girls school and gave lessons in the history of art at Napless art academy. He was also an active member of a Naples society promoting Salvator Rosas work. Miola regularly published articles in Neapolitan journals under the pseudonym Biacca.

http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson
100
7 Italian
6 French
7 Italian
5 Dutch
8 Austrian
7 Flemish
7 Italian
7 Italian
6 French
5 Dutch
7 Italian
7 Italian
6 French
5 Greek
8 American
6 French
6 French
7 Italian
6 French
7 Italian
6 French
6 French
6 German
7 British
6 French
7 Italian
7 Italian
9 Taiwanese
7 Belgian
5 Greek
5 Dutch
8 American
5 Dutch
7 Italian
7 Italian
6 French
7 Italian
7 Belgian
6 French
7 Italian
8 Bohemian
8 American
5 Dutch
6 German
7 Italian
6 French
6 French
9 Porcelain
8 American
7 Italian
7 Italian
6 French
8 Austrian
7 English
5 Dutch
5 Greek
5 Dutch
5 Greek
6 German
15 Daguerreotypist
6 French
6 French
7 Italian
5 Greek
8 American
7 Italian
7 British
6 French
7 Italian
6 French
7 Italian
6 French
6 French
7 Flemish
6 French
6 French
5 Greek
7 Italian
8 American
6 French
6 French
6 French
6 French
7 Italian
7 Italian
6 French
7 Flemish
6 German
5 Dutch
5 Greek
6 French
6 French
7 Italian
9 Porcelain
9 Brazilian
7 Italian
6 French
7 Spanish
7 British
7 Italian

http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/professionOrOccupation
100
40 painter; designer; printmaker; draftsman
30 draftsman; painter; printmaker
6 bniste
18 painter; draftsman
10 Clockmaker
7 painter
21 Porcelain manufactory
11 illuminator
12 photographer
16 porcelain worker
8 Sculptor
18 painter; draftsman
18 draftsman; painter
16 furniture worker
7 2030113
40 designer; draftsman; painter; printmaker
11 Illuminator
40 painter; draftsman; designer; printmaker
7 painter
18 painter; draftsman
30 Painter; Printmaker; Draftsman
22 photographer; sculptor
12 photographer
12 photographer
7 Painter
30 painter; draftsman; printmaker
16 porcelain worker
8 sculptor
7 Painter
11 Illuminator
18 painter; draftsman
7 painter
18 draftsman; painter
21 sculptor; metalworker
7 Painter
7 Painter
12 vase-painter
7 painter
12 photographer
7 Painter
7 Painter
30 Painter; Draftsman; Printmaker
45 sculptor; draftsman; printmaker; photographer
18 draftsman; painter
29 painter; sculptor; printmaker
7 painter
29 painter; sculptor; printmaker
7 Painter
33 photographer; painter; printmaker
7 Painter
32 silversmith; architect; designer
8 sculptor
12 photographer
28 designer; draftsman; painter
34 Illuminator; Gold- and silversmith
12 manufacturer
18 Painter; Draftsman
7 painter
18 Painter; Draftsman
11 metalworker
7 painter
12 photographer
18 painter; draftsman
18 draftsman; painter
12 photographer
16 furniture worker
8 sculptor
19 designer; architect
12 vase-painter
7 Painter
7 painter
7 painter
17 Workshop director
12 photographer
26 draftsman; painter; author
8 sculptor
12 photographer
10 clockmaker
12 Vase-Painter
9 Draftsman
7 painter
7 painter
17 modeler; sculptor
18 painter; draftsman
8 Enameler
20 Vase-Painter; Potter
39 painter; sculptor; architect; draftsman
12 vase-painter
11 illuminator
19 sculptor; draftsman
12 photographer
30 draftsman; painter; printmaker
18 painter; draftsman
8 Sculptor
8 sculptor
18 painter; draftsman
7 painter
21 sculptor; metalworker
6 carver
7 painter

177
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_Louis 2.7969677649182385
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_Domenico 1.0094727999185868
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson symbol_- 6.6964301971952604
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_Algardi 2.6650501093841488
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson starts_with_char_a -8.132137500251602
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson starts_with_char_o -7.46960783764756
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson all_capitalized_token -6.245883685705426
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_Maurisset 2.685835679993384
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson starts_with_char_C 18.861063946293807
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson starts_with_char_B -0.6988862004401015
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson starts_with_char_A 0.6129035491129584
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson starts_with_char_M 11.831824842775122
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson starts_with_char_F -7.664323377474977
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_Robert 2.6084969416995247
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson starts_with_char_H 8.636695935837324
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson starts_with_char_P 4.387961122651347
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_Painter 4.056872775593568
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_Caffieri 1.9939634430498443
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_Chatigny 1.5075398349361173
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_Francesco 6.102626629747306
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_Laurana 4.00970700889585
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_length_8 -1.8082924690887783
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_length_13 -3.4425482681877835
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_length_7 1.9388531005345317
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_length_6 9.926326673037627
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_length_5 2.3829540915178864
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_length_4 10.56507577611957
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_length_3 6.644734888306854
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_length_2 -4.585639589790302
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_length_1 -4.9471871391121685
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_Potter 2.443875824951751
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_Affecter 2.6545068291447715
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_deRoberti 2.6787536400120446
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_Constantin 2.589355306759161
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_Johann 2.5820430484152364
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_Chierico 3.461812206068339
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_Paul 1.8969894960685214
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_Michel 4.460441118347333
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_Lorenzo 2.6866938685095363
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_Carlo 2.0992670741970194
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_tienne 1.8756358699591473
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_OSullivan 2.8653123998185452
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_Atkins 2.191858480605354
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_Delacroix 2.6634368216033466
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_Canuti 1.0094727999185868
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_Bronzino 2.653765771346922
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_of -7.46960783764756
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson capitalized_token 6.111241473449784
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_del 3.3929086534832886
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_Aachen 1.223089209766672
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/biographicalInformation alpha_id_canvases 1.5297128950063574
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/biographicalInformation alpha_id_eighteenth 0.07373404227898746
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/biographicalInformation alpha_id_heads 0.7084131017938814
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/biographicalInformation alpha_id_anything 0.07186189488212184
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/biographicalInformation alpha_id_used 0.36572399012223633
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/biographicalInformation alpha_id_battle 0.14178170219230538
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/biographicalInformation alpha_id_Museum 2.1020946733636747
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/biographicalInformation alpha_id_drawing 1.8325563456397536
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/biographicalInformation alpha_id_Born 1.4752323786849464
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/biographicalInformation alpha_id_became 6.035126648380591
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/biographicalInformation alpha_id_moved 2.783091105063441
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/biographicalInformation alpha_length_12 9.51096106171296
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/biographicalInformation alpha_length_16 0.6632929154402343
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/biographicalInformation alpha_length_17 1.9057610320722305
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/biographicalInformation alpha_id_but 5.8822964495496874
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/biographicalInformation alpha_id_confidently 0.5727802335079982
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/biographicalInformation alpha_id_figures 3.248875032866755
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/biographicalInformation alpha_id_known 7.390992675639055
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/biographicalInformation alpha_id_visited 2.479544286568092
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/biographicalInformation alpha_length_9 8.105605114281506
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/biographicalInformation alpha_length_6 -2.0410747888096976
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/biographicalInformation alpha_length_3 8.591110521191682
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/biographicalInformation alpha_id_Elders 0.07682580072630454
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/biographicalInformation alpha_id_in 19.328052648293717
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/biographicalInformation alpha_id_interiors 0.6881492806840663
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/biographicalInformation alpha_id_Pretis 1.210302041687495
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/biographicalInformation alpha_id_He 11.301591634451595
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/biographicalInformation alpha_id_many 4.327358592528463
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/biographicalInformation alpha_id_as 12.312536368640062
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/biographicalInformation starts_with_char_l 17.12790779143627
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/biographicalInformation alpha_id_has 0.8793031855151581
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/biographicalInformation starts_with_char_s 10.73435764588057
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/biographicalInformation starts_with_char_n 14.69627909587069
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/biographicalInformation starts_with_char_w 14.469129371924055
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/biographicalInformation starts_with_char_V 7.515122517545375
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/biographicalInformation alpha_id_admitted 0.18753673791198025
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/biographicalInformation alpha_id_Great 0.9625488254785121
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/biographicalInformation alpha_id_real 0.8642638820353498
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/biographicalInformation alpha_id_fourteen 0.6880301269390834
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/biographicalInformation alpha_id_that 6.115151007882839
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/biographicalInformation alpha_id_them 2.0016382911465747
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/biographicalInformation symbol_, 22.32649046675392
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/biographicalInformation alpha_id_executed 1.2996804486453586
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/biographicalInformation unit_place_digit_0 9.934407808829885
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/biographicalInformation unit_place_digit_1 5.697004391194382
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/biographicalInformation alpha_id_other 2.9574965846328323
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/biographicalInformation alpha_id_engraver 0.4881672470255705
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/biographicalInformation alpha_id_around 6.166237557914093
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/biographicalInformation alpha_id_business 2.1471608063355108
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/biographicalInformation alpha_id_explore 0.6166928810054507
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson alpha_id_British 6.931760176767206
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson starts_with_char_B -4.85853254863809
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson starts_with_char_D 2.004143531075986
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson starts_with_char_A -3.877679163633253
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson starts_with_char_G 1.0479474223159944
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson starts_with_char_F 1.165783953225654
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson starts_with_char_I 9.050368599700013
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson starts_with_char_T -6.253453066806253
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson starts_with_char_P -11.193456918764799
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson alpha_id_German 5.231130247087228
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson alpha_id_Greek 10.44709238797268
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson alpha_id_Brazilian 3.432586906705529
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson alpha_id_Austrian 6.556156122336023
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson alpha_id_American 8.874534352408883
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson alpha_id_Taiwanese 3.0925484375624186
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson alpha_id_Flemish 1.3897955444190204
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson alpha_id_Italian 18.35441186220086
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson alpha_id_Porcelain 4.293687309702114
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson alpha_id_French 11.98441569256352
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson capitalized_token 21.562044536067873
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson alpha_id_Dutch 10.210909850814774
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson alpha_id_Bohemian 3.4364379254513207
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson alpha_length_8 -5.083393311290921
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson alpha_length_9 -6.500732476071863
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson alpha_length_7 -6.999219646087648
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson alpha_length_6 -11.759727505276375
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson alpha_length_5 -8.4529427391735
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/professionOrOccupation alpha_id_Draftsman 4.025628220703336
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/professionOrOccupation alpha_id_worker 3.2367691283768307
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/professionOrOccupation alpha_id_designer 1.9140947082255046
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/professionOrOccupation symbol_- 1.3745766800364958
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/professionOrOccupation num_len_7 0.9972564957502223
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/professionOrOccupation symbol_; 13.000108015418556
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/professionOrOccupation alpha_id_bniste 2.1975512847082235
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/professionOrOccupation alpha_id_sculptor 6.394996675195507
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/professionOrOccupation starts_with_char_d 4.655828246847756
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/professionOrOccupation starts_with_char_c 2.7811250317484317
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/professionOrOccupation starts_with_char_b 2.1975512847082235
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/professionOrOccupation starts_with_char_a 2.7042778232956626
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/professionOrOccupation starts_with_char_m 2.791618043231274
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/professionOrOccupation starts_with_char_f 2.2087874267527896
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/professionOrOccupation alpha_id_Sculptor 4.275526468667995
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/professionOrOccupation starts_with_char_s 8.549797081799156
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/professionOrOccupation starts_with_char_p 18.27009488470147
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/professionOrOccupation alpha_id_Gold 1.5163534584313532
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/professionOrOccupation starts_with_char_v 0.6415654597016897
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/professionOrOccupation starts_with_char_w 3.2367691283768307
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/professionOrOccupation alpha_id_and 1.5163534584313532
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/professionOrOccupation alpha_id_architect 1.2763192237688477
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/professionOrOccupation starts_with_char_D 2.4443610933795403
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/professionOrOccupation starts_with_char_I 3.725639197143842
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/professionOrOccupation starts_with_char_S 4.241064525493375
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/professionOrOccupation starts_with_char_P -1.1779844730257496
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/professionOrOccupation alpha_id_Illuminator 3.725789734397844
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/professionOrOccupation alpha_id_Painter 2.402733137692116
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/professionOrOccupation starting_digit_2 0.9972564957502223
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/professionOrOccupation alpha_id_painter 13.301131397028422
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/professionOrOccupation alpha_id_photographer 4.5788434386602885
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/professionOrOccupation alpha_id_clockmaker 0.5809634478952332
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/professionOrOccupation alpha_id_draftsman 7.011301095703929
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/professionOrOccupation alpha_id_furniture 2.2087874267527896
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/professionOrOccupation capitalized_token -6.941788084235641
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/professionOrOccupation alpha_id_vase 1.2757445810648422
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/professionOrOccupation alpha_id_Printmaker 0.6378723597960049
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/professionOrOccupation alpha_id_printmaker 3.187353430158196
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/professionOrOccupation alpha_id_porcelain 1.0279817016240407
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/professionOrOccupation alpha_length_8 5.153120348485925
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/professionOrOccupation alpha_length_9 3.985355871450764
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/professionOrOccupation unit_place_digit_3 0.9972564957502223
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/professionOrOccupation alpha_length_10 2.6121881389827584
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/professionOrOccupation alpha_length_11 5.00771590835741
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/professionOrOccupation alpha_length_12 6.726827389852568
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/professionOrOccupation alpha_length_7 2.6479237818872807
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/professionOrOccupation alpha_length_6 3.8744756210484685
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/professionOrOccupation before_decimal_len_7 0.9972564957502223
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/professionOrOccupation alpha_length_4 -0.15093908467223183
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/professionOrOccupation alpha_length_3 -0.7540600287682658
