11

http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description
100
1158 Houston artists Dan Havel and Dean Ruck have collaborated on a number of site-specific interventions in the domestic architecture of Houston. However, these projects have been ephemeral: preserved only in drawings, models, and photographs. Trespass is the first monumental work by Havel Ruck Projects that is not short-lived. Trespass Created out of materials scavenged at a building site in Houstons historic Magnolia Grove district, Trespass is constructed from the fragments of a 19th-century wooden bungalow, the kind of structure once typical of the district. At a glance, the sculpture is a seeming whirlwind of flotsam and jetsam. Closer examination, however, reveals the careful structure that holds together this maelstrom of slats. Trespass can be compared to the anarchitecture projects of Gordon Matta-Clark. Like Matta-Clark, Havel and Ruck are interested in the social dimension of architecture, and as the title suggests, raises questions regarding property and community. Should the artists be considered trespassers for scavenging the materials from a building site? Or are the developers who are transforming a neighborhood the trespassers?
551 With its extravagant ornamentation and luxurious materials, this cabinet is a dramatic example of mid-19th-century Neoclassical design. Elaborate parlor cabinets were often showpieces in the interiors of the very rich at that time. The prestigious New York cabinetmaking and decorating firm of Pottier and Stymus worked in a highly eclectic style that borrowed from Roman, Egyptian, and Renaissance sources. The elaborate marquetry (inlaid wood) panel depicting Bacchus, the Roman god of wine, was made in France by specialist craftsman Joseph Cremer.
1045 In 1959, while enrolled at the Art Students League of New York, Lee Bontecou began constructing abstract hybrids of painting and sculpture. To create these objects, Bontecou salvaged bits of industrial canvas. She would suture the canvas scraps together with wire, adhering them to an underlying structure of welded metal. The resulting wall reliefs grew progressively in size over the years. Eventually she incorporated found objects such as gas masks, helmets, bits of ragged metal, or a saw blade, as seen here. Untitled An eerie topological abstraction, u hangs on the wall, embodying the interest of Minimalist artists to overcome the division between painting and sculpture. The rough-hewn fabrics and their ocular shapes are organic, while the salvaged steel and saw blade suggest a violent, destructive, life-threatening force. The seemingly ruptured surfaces reveal mysterious inner spaces. At once mechanistic and sexual, abstract yet evocative of the brutal forces of war, Bontecos works are both of their time and distinctly her own.
1172 Los Angeles-based artist Daniel Joseph Martinez produces provocative work deployed in the public realm through site-specific and public art projects investigating and challenging uneven power relationships in American society. Rooted in the art and activism of the Chicano art movement, Martinez contemplates his own mortality in relation to long-held intellectual and philosophical beliefs about the function of art as a vehicle for social change. To Make a Blind Man Murder for the Things Hes Seen (Happiness Is Over-rated) The hyper-realistic installation Happiness Is Over-rated consists of a life-size animatronics replica of the artist dressed in a blue, industrial uniform that visually codifies the working-class individual in contemporary American society. Kneeling on the floor and holding a straight-edge razor blade in each hand, the figure proceeds to slash his wrists, while simultaneously emitting the artists own sardonic, infectious laugh. uses mordant humor as a means of examining conditions of life and death from the perspective of a U.S.-Latino artist, while making reference to Walt Disney, Yukio Mishima, and the globalization of identity politics.
1229 For more than four decades, Richard Notkin has created extraordinary ceramics whose narrative content reflects larger conversations taking place in the world. In the early 1980s, he became fascinated by the pottery of the Yixing kilns in China. Potters in Yixing (in the Yangzi River delta area) used naturally colored stoneware clays to carve, sculpt, and slip-cast vessels. Notkin was intrigued by the exacting detail. He began to use it in a series of teapots that combine the traditions of Chinese Yixing pottery with the artists social consciousness. Cube Skull Teapot uNotokins Yixing teapots are small in scale but loaded with potent messages that are often critical of humanitys failings. The artist frequently uses the human skull as a symbol of death as well as of human intellect. In the , series, he combines the skull with imagery that explores the causes and effects of war. uEver since his formative years as an artist in the California Funk movement of the 1970s, Notkin has demanded that his ceramics be socially activist. Notkin displays Funks low-brow, ironic, provocative, and anti-establishment philosophies in his use of populist and purposefully overt symbols to comment on topics from war to homelessness,
1576 In his early career, Edward Steichen firmly believed that for photography to be recognized as a serious art form, the formal qualities of the image must resemble painting. For this reason, he chose to downplay the recording function of a camera, minimizing the details of the scene in favor of a more painterly style. Here, two black trees frame a luminous chestnut tree covered with flowers that appear as though they are dabs of paint. Trees, Long Island uThe primary impetus of the earliest photography was documenting people, places, and events. Steichens early work demonstrates a departure, to a type of photography in which the makers personal, pictorial style is paramount. Created in a Romantic vein, this 1905 photograph of trees is more about light and the mood of the setting than faithful representation, uSteichen was an important figure in American art history not only as a photographer but also as an advocate for American art, discovering and fostering artistic talent. With photographer Alfred Stieglitz, Steichen opened an art gallery in New York City. Little Galleries of the Photo-Secession, more famously known as 291, introduced major European Modernists such as Paul Cxe8zanne, Henri Matisse, and Pablo Picasso to American artists. Steichens later style evolved from the vaguely defined details and textures of , to exploring modes of Modernism within photography by capturing exacting details, a full range of tonal values, and convincingly solid forms. uTo view specific works by Steichen in the collection, contact the museums , for an appointment.
947 Esther Parada was trained as a photographer, but her workxf3monumental in scale and ambitious in naturexf3is not traditionally photographic. In Past Recovery , she re-creates a history of her family in one work of 100 images. She transforms the traditional photo album into one manipulated photograph of a 1920 family banquet enlarged to life-size. Past Recovery is a montage of personal memories, with all states of lifexeds cycle represented. The artist thus compresses time, as human memory does, to link visual references never linked in reality. My sisters face is juxtaposed with her own image 30 years later and with that of a great aunt whom we never met, although family legend has it that they were cast in the same mold, Parada wrote. Similarly I see other members of that family gathering through the filter of my own cumulative experience. uTo view specific works by Parada in the collection, contact the museums , for an appointment.
1359 After W. Eugene Smith recovered from the injuries he sustained while producing powerful World War II reportage in the South Pacific, he rejoined Life magazine, which had been founded in 1936 to publish photo essays taken with a mind-guided camera. With his Country Doctor useries, Smith stretched the dimensions of the photo essay by adding an interpretive dimension to the traditional narrative content. The photographs not only documented what the doctor did, but also explored the emotional dimension of the physicians profession, An advocate for moral responsibility in journalism, Smith sought to awaken the conscience of viewers through his photographs. By carefully selecting his subjects and then spending substantial periods of time with them to get a more intimate perspective on their lives, he created in-depth essays that evoke viewer sympathy. This process revolutionized the new field of photojournalism by expanding the scope of what a photo essay could be. Although Smith created several other seminal essays for Life , he felt that the photo essay should be largely managed by the photographer, a view that created friction with editors who were more text-oriented. He ultimately resigned and worked as an independent artist to further his causes. uTo view specific works by Smith in the collection, contact the museums , for an appointment.
1067 uIn the 17th-century American home, an armchair was hardly a commonplace object. Its presence signified the prominence of the chairs occupant: everyone else was relegated to more-modest seating forms, such as turned stools or benches. The joined chair, as its name implies, was constructed with mortise-and-tenon joints, resulting in a sturdier, more labor intensive, and therefore more expensive object. The cost became even dearer with the addition of a plump feather cushion on top of the board seat, The design of this chair cannot be associated with a specific craftsman. However, like much early furniture, it is firmly rooted in British and Continental precedents. The square, tapering columnar legs and arm supports are derived from Mannerist vocabulary of 16th- and 17th-century northern Europe, whereas the flat, overhanging crest rail and carved ornament suggests a first-generation woodworker near Devon, England, where comparable carving practices date to the 1500s. A number of these chairs have histories that place them in Essex County, Massachusetts.
1310 This high-style, Art Deco work is an outstanding example of Tiffany & Co.s presentation silver and one of Tiffanys last masterpieces in the genre. It was commissioned in 1925 by the business associates of Carl M. Loeb, president of the American Metal Company, Ltd, in honor of his 50th birthday. Tiffanys craftsmen were particularly adept at translating personal, historical, industrial, architectural, or geographic imagery onto monumental silver objects such as this cigar humidor through specialized techniques. The humidor features engravings of American Metal Company subsidiaries, workers at two of the companys mines, and two figures on the lid: a miner chiseling ore from a rocky outcropping, and a steelworker pouring smoking, molten ore into a vessel. Images such as these glorified labor and suggested that workers were efficient, productive partners with industry. Within a few years of this humidors creation, the United States was plunged into the Great Depression, which all but wiped out Tiffanys commissions for major works of presentation silver. Tiffany & Co. remained one of Americas leading silver firms over subsequent decades, but its designs became increasingly modest and conservative, never quite matching the individuality of exuberance of the late-19th to early-20th-century period.
1493 With his friend Morgan Russell, Stanton Macdonald-Wright developed a style of color abstraction called Synchromy, meaning with color. Informed by color theory, Synchromists explored the relationship of color and shapes. The central motif here may suggest a torso or flexed arm; notice the graceful modulations of form and color surrounding the contorted knot at the center. Arm Organization At the age of 19, Macdonald-Wright left his home in Southern California for Paris. He remained overseas for six years, enrolling in a succession of art schools and committing himself to studying and assimilating the most advanced art of his time. In 1911 he met Russell, a fellow American, and they pioneered Synchromism as the only avant-garde movement in Europe established by Americans in the years before World War I. The war forced Macdonald-Wright to return to the United States, where he ultimately settled in Southern California and became a tireless advocate of Modernism. Dying Captive Macdonald-Wright was convinced that color and sound were equivalent phenomena and that one could orchestrate the colors of a painting the way a composer arranges notes and chords in music. Here, he uses such chords of complementary colors as a means of organizing the seemingly abstract composition. Yet, is not entirely abstract, and the potential forms of the curving torso, shoulder, and flexed arm likely derive from Michelangelos sculpture , which the artist studied at the Musxe9e du Louvre in Paris.
1146 Always alive to the play of text and image, Michael Miller borrows his imagery from clip-art sources on the Internet; he also embraces logos, advertising slogans, and tabloid headlines. He then renders this material freehand. Using devices borrowed from graphic design, Miller gives his compositions an additional commercial gloss and punch. 1 Super Cry Baby is a masterly display of these strategies and techniques. Go Painted over an earlier canvas titled 1 Super Cry Baby , from 2001, is one of Millers most personal paintings. Surviving from the first stage of the composition are the stripes on the left margin, as well as the floral pattern of the original canvas. The painting is transformed, however, by new layers of text and images, as well as by the addition of a higher-keyed palette. The smiling face (based on a suntan-lotion logo) at upper left, the words of the title, the long-stemmed mushrooms (noxiously hued and cloyingly cute), the subscript idol, and the hauntingly silhouetted mangrove tree that casts an ominous presence over the patriotic red-white-and-blue ground, come together in a manic celebration of received ideas.
1350 In the mid-1960s James Turrell pioneered a new concern with the phenomena of space and light, often referred to as the Light & Space Movement. Turrell sought not to depict light but to use light itself as his material, and his earliest works investigated the effects of artificial light. He also developed a number of installations that heightened the relationship between light and the architectural frame. The Light Inside The MFAH commissioned Turrells The Light Inside ufor the underground tunnel linking the museums Caroline Wiess Law Building with the Audrey Jones Beck Building when the latter opened in 2000. , turns the walls of the tunnel into vessels for conducting light. An expanded version of his earlier explorations of light in his Shallow Space Construction series, Turrells The Light Inside is an all-encompassing environment. The Light Inside Transcending the traditional confines of built spaces, The Light Inside acts as both a passage and a destination. The raised walkway guides visitors forward and gives them the sense of floating in space, while the changing cycle of illumination (which shifts from blue, to crimson, to magenta) further invites contemplation. makes the experience of moving between the Law and the Beck Buildings not only an exploration of light and space, but also a profound and awe-inspiring experience.
1389 Few pieces of American furniture possess the sculptural qualities of this rare desk-and-bookcase. Notable for its bombxe9 sides, the case exhibits an even greater complexity and movement with its serpentine contoured front. This sense of motion is further accentuated by the lively scalloped carving which defines the bookcase doors. Although the desks diminutive scale and construction suggest it was produced towards the end of the century, as the popularity of the Rococo was beginning to wane, it fully embraces the Late Baroque idiom. The City and Country Builders and Workmans Treasury of Designs, It is provocative to consider that the desks original owner, Thomas Dawes, may have assumed a central role in its design and attentively oversaw its construction. Initially trained as a mason, he eventually became a recognized architect in Boston. Clearly, he was conversant with the bombxe9 form, having installed a pulpit in this contour patterned after plate 112 in Batty Langleys for Bostons Brattle Street Church in 1772. In addition to his copy of Langley, Dawess extensive library included other architectural tomes by James Gibbs, William Salmon, William Pain, and Colen Campbell, as well as published furniture designs by Robert Manwaring. Perhaps these were a source of inspiration for this desk, particularly its bombxe9 shape, writing interior, and architectronic bookcase.
851 Embellished with only the name of its makers, Roycroft, this oak chair has the straightforward construction, pegged joinery, and beautiful austerity that characterize American Arts and Crafts furniture. Founded by Elbert Hubbard in East Aurora, New York, the Roycroft was a utopian community of artists and craftspeople The group was an important exponent of the Arts and Crafts movement in America. Its philosophy was strongly influenced by a similar movement being led by William Morris in England. As with Morris, the Roycrofters believed that art and craftsmanship could be instruments to reform society. Unusual for a reformer, Hubbard was also a good businessman and created a successful brand for the community. All Roycroft products were stamped either with the Roycroft name or its insignia: a cross and orb copied from a medieval bookbinder.
1137 Kachina dolls represent spiritual beings called kachinas, and Sio Shalako is a kachina believed to bring rain. A tall, shoulderless figure, he wears clothing made from rows of eagle feathers. He has large, prominent eyes, a green face, and horns. Kachinas are supernatural beings who embody the spirits of living things, inanimate objects, and ancestors who have become a part of nature. They can be male or female, and they represent aspects of the natural world: clouds, animals, plants, human qualities, and even death. Native Americans of the Southwest United States believe that kachinas come to live amongst them from late December until July. During this time, ceremonies take place in which men of the pueblo dress and perform dances as incarnations of the spirits. Kachina dolls are not playthings. They are carved-and-painted figures that represent the kachinas. The men give them to women and children. The dolls are hung in homes, where they bring blessings upon the household and teach children about the different spirits. Carved from cottonwood or pine, kachina dolls play an important role in the Hopi and Zuni religions.
1282 Silver and gold, of intrinsic and symbolic value, have always been highly esteemed. Because the American colonies lacked patron-aristocrats, the earliest manifestations of style occurred not in painting or sculpture but in the decorative arts. The silversmith, more than any other artisan, was keenly aware of the latest stylistic developments through the English-produced vessels he imported to sell alongside those of his own manufacture. John Coney was the first in this country to have fabricated several forms, including the inkstand, fork, sugar box, chafing dish, monteith, and chocolate pot. He was equally adept as an engraver, executing the copper plates for Massachusetts and New Hampshire paper currency. Coneys known work in the Mannerist and Baroque aesthetics establishes him as the most accomplished and versatile of all colonial silversmiths. This tankard is a consummate American expression of early Baroque silver. The vessel was made for John Foster, a prosperous Boston merchant and prominent official with sophisticated taste and lofty aspirations. In 1692 he erected an extraordinary house that introduced New Englanders to the Italian Renaissance style. Fosters tankard, like his mansion, is one of the most eloquent statements of style in early New England.
1886 Swiss-born American artist Robert Frank is one of the most influential living photographers. His approach to the medium is born from an inquisitive rejection of conforming to societal pressures, resulting in raw and psychologically revealing photographs that often highlight the loneliness and isolation characteristic of postwar identity. The Americans. As the first European to receive a Guggenheim Fellowship, Frank spent two years traveling by car throughout the United States, photographing his personal-and often cynical-reactions to the country. The culmination of this expedition was the 1959 publication of his seminal book Trolley, New Orleans As Beat Generation novelist Jack Kerouac explained in the introduction, Frank sucked a sad poem right out of America onto film. The Americans Frank presented an unromanticized portrait of a nation that was rapidly changing. He recognized various aspects of American life and society, in particular the car culture evolving around a new system of interstate highways. This photograph of a streetcar in New Orleans reveals social tensions rooted in the South in the mid-1950s, expressed by the hierarchical placement of whites, blacks, men, women, and children. The Americans was used as the cover for several early editions of Pull My Daisy , demonstrating the significance of this image to Frank. uThe MFAH owns more than 320 of Franks photographs, including all of the images from , . He later added filmmaking to his body of work and made his first film, u, with painter Alfred Leslie. It was added to the National Film Registry of the U.S. Library of Congress in 1996. The MFAH has served as distributor and repository for Franks film and video since 1986. Its holdings include the , with several key titles in his filmography. Please make an appointment with the to view selections of Frank photographs from the MFAH collection.
1539 uAt first glance, this painting is difficult to decipher. But much in the way that eyes adjust to darkness, forms and patterns begin to emerge out of the gloom, and three startled horses threatened by two wolves (or coyotes) come to light. The evocative mood and supernatural quality of this work, and others like it, made the West look like a timeless dreamworld, a quality that established Frederic Remingtons nocturnes, or night scenes, among his greatest artistic achievements, Remington exhibited The Call for Help in his 1908 solo exhibition at the prestigious New York gallery Knoedler & Company. The painting received superb reviews, with at least five critics singling it out for praise. The New York Times stated that the work tells, perhaps, the most impressive story of all those in the show. Other critics likewise celebrated Remington as a great storyteller and painter, as well as a preserver of the romantic and primal side of Western life. Indeed, the composition is a masterly rendering of a tense moment set within a moonlit, snowy landscape. Using black, blue, and highlights of gray, Remington suggests the musculature, sheen, and movement of the three terror-stricken horses: one cowers, another rears, while the third, partially obscured from view, presses close to the fence. The fence itself, an abstract pattern of broad bands of light and dark, marks the collision between the wildness of nature and the order of civilization, the latter represented by the log cabin and stacks of hay or grain in the background.
1486 uOn February 23, 1945, veteran newspaper journalist Joe Rosenthal captured five United States Marines and one United States Navy Corpsman as they raised the American flag on Iwo Jima island in Japan. His photograph remains one of the best-known images of World War IIs Pacific War. As the editors of , wrote, In that moment, Rosenthals camera recorded the soul of a nation. U.S. Camera Magazine Old Glory Goes Up on Mt. Suribachi, Iwo Jima uAfter hearing that the initial flag raised was going to be replaced with a larger one, Rosenthal chose to follow the second team to the top of Mount Suribachi volcano to cover the event. Using a 4x5 field camera and not entirely ready for the initial jerk of the flagpole upward, he took a frame from his hip, anyway. The shot he thought he had missed became an American icon before he had ever seen the resulting image. Rosenthals photograph of the flag being raised would soon grace the cover of almost every major newspaper, helping to lift human spirits in a time of war, won the Pulitzer Prize and was immortalized in the Marine Corps War Memorial in Arlington, Virginia. It has been the subject of poems, stamps, tattoos, and a major motion picture; has been reenacted at homecomings; has been re-created in Lego bricks; and has been interpreted as yard art. Few images in the history of photography have enjoyed such a full and varied life. uTo view specific works by Rosenthal in the collection, contact the museums , for an appointment.
1294 Landscape as a form of theater and spectacle culminated in 19th-century American art with the work of Thomas Moran and Albert Bierstadt. Both artists emigrated from Europe at young ages and went on to achieve success as interpreters of the American West. The new, epic landscape they depicted functioned as a national symbol of grandeur and promise, yet at the same time it served as rumination on the subject of nature and the divinity to be found within it. Indians Spear Fishing Bierstadt first left the East Coast to travel west in 1859, accompanying a government-sponsored trip from Missouri to the Rocky Mountains. Compiled from close observation, sketches, and stereoscopic views taken on the expedition, u portrays the West as a pristine, sublime wilderness that seemingly could be found only in the Bibles Book of Genesis. Within a compressed space, Bierstadt draws together barren rock formations, towering waterfalls, spindly trees, crystalline water reflecting rocky outcrops, and a peak that pierces the wispy and moisture-laden clouds, turning to mist below. In the brightly lit foreground near the shore, a boat filled with three Native Americans provides scale and identifies the location as unmistakably that of the West; the boat laden with furs spells the riches of the land,
1131 American artist George Bellows focused on images of urban realism. A Stag at Sharkeys , based on his 1909 oil painting, is one of the most iconic images of 20th-century American printmaking. Bellows was a member of an artists group in New York City known as the Ashcan School. His first studio was located on Broadway opposite the Sharkey Athletic Club, where the law permitted members to see illegal prize fights, or stags. Prizefighting clubs like Sharkeys were often condemned as sordid spaces, and this print captures that tawdry underworld. Arranged in a pyramid-like composition recalling classical sculpture, the anonymous fighters appear in an interlocking form with bold diagonal lines. The voyeuristic spectators, who are enthralled by the dramatic fight, represent a range of social types, from laborers to businessmen. Encouraging a favored fighter and reacting to and with the punches until the bouts end, the spectators are vicarious participants in the fight. Bellows is believed to have included himself as the second spectator to the referees right, with just an eye and balding head peeping over the raised floor.
989 Melissa Miller brings a realists eye to her vividly imagined landscapes. A native of Houston, Miller grounds her work in her experience of the local landscape, and in particular the rocky countryside of central Texas. In 1984 she remarked: I live in a hilly part of Texas full of scrubby trees, animals, water, and sky. Each day I observe dramas, contradictions, compromises, tensions, and endearments. Miller developed a series of richly allegorical paintings, essentially paradigms for the human condition, images that encompass themes of playful courtship to mortal struggle. By the late 1970s, animals became the chief protagonists in these allegories. Flood Tightly cropped, focuses on the plight of three animals whose reactions to the rising waters chart a range of emotion, from the raging tiger to the crane who seems to arch its neck in despair. The one active figure in the composition is that of the crouching tiger, who tentatively tests a passing branch as a saving foothold.
1150 Having grown up against a backdrop of alcoholism and a country-club culture obsessed with image over content, artist Eric Fischl focuses on the rift between experience and expression. His landmark portfolio Year of the Drowned Dog consists of two three-part components. When combined, they operate as a pictorial game. Year of the Drowned Dog The first component is a triptych of a beach panorama, and the second consists of three separate smaller sheets (mother and child, three sailors, walking man) that overlap the panorama. These irregular-shaped segments transform a tranquil Caribbean beach scene into a complex narrative. The mother and child observe the boy and the dog of the title; the other figures do not interact with each other. Each of the sheets varying times of day, as evidenced by the figures shadows, underscores the independent, nonlinear development of the imagery. was Fischls first attempt at a complex, multi-component project of etchings. It marks a shift in subject matter as he began to explore the negative impact of American tourism on idyllic beaches of islands that had recently been developed by the resort industry.
94 uTo view specific works by Sommer in the collection, contact the museums , for an appointment.
1090 Ascension opens with a dark field of water, punctuated by a shaft of cutting sunlight. This calm expanse is suddenly disturbed by the dramatic plunging of a fully clothed man. With his arms raised laterally like those of Christ on the cross, the diver first floats toward the surface and then descends out of the field of vision. The dramatic sounds, turbulent waters, and swarm of air bubbles give way to the original deep-blue void, the sparkling sunlight again infusing the water with an otherworldly glow. Ascension Bill Viola is one of the pioneers of video art. Post-production, he extended Ascension s entire sequence, which was only a few seconds in real time, into 10 minutes of extreme duration. With such a contradictory play between title and image- is an image of a man descending, after all-Viola sets up a series of dualities. Why, he asks, do we believe that heaven is above and hell below? Like the man in this video, the viewer is also immersed in the artists visual field. For Viola, water is both a vehicle and a site for altered consciousness and spiritual reawakening.
1063 Jim Love uncovered the marvelous in everyday, cast-off objects. Figure without Brassiere exemplifies the best of his early work, expressing at once sexual awe and a sophisticated knowledge of Surrealist sculpture and tribal art. Figure without Brassiere A native of the Texas Panhandle and schooled in set design, Love made Houston his home in 1953. He found the genre of assemblage to be the perfect outlet for his incisive and subversive spirit, assembling totemic figures from found materials such as polishing brushes, plumbing fixtures, and scrap metal. His sculptures combined witty invention with an industrial grit, freely borrowing from popular culture, theater, and literature. Elaborating on the improvisational nature of his work, the artist said, In my world there is less planning than might be thought. You keep shuffling things and try to stay alert for whatever it is that might pop up because one thing might suggest something else. As seen in u, the joys and sorrows of falling in and out of love were among Loves foremost concerns in his work.
1351 In this acutely observed still life, Martin Johnson Heade depicts five magnolias in various stages of blossom. The golden glow of the background and of the plush velvet sets off the various qualities of the flower: the delicate, smooth petals in creamy white; the rough stems; and the waxy finish of the leaves, one of which has been affected by a fungus. Born in Pennsylvania to a prosperous farming family, Heade spent his early years hunting, fishing, and learning to love nature-a passion that led him to paint in landscape and still life more than other genres. Even in an age of peripatetic artists, he was more widely traveled than most, living variously in Europe and America, and traveling to South America on three occasions. uHeade moved in 1883 to Florida, where flourishing tropical flowers like magnolias both encouraged his interest in natural history and appealed to him artistically. He repeatedly painted magnolias, creating compositions that are infinitely varied and show evidence of various alterations that he made while painting. The subtle shifts within his work as a whole account in part for Heades appeal to modern sensibilities. Although Heades work received only limited artistic acclaim during his lifetime, his paintings were rediscovered in the 1940s, and he has since evolved into an undisputed modern American master.
688 Originally trained as a sculptor, Wendell Castle emerged as a leader of American Studio Craft in the 1960s. In his upstate New York studio, he sculpted exquisitely crafted, wholly original organic forms from large blocks of laminated hardwoods. In 1976 he began producing historically inspired furniture, playfully augmented with carved trompe loeil (fool-the-eye) objects. In this superb example, a supple, life-size trench coat-complete with buttonholes, a missing button, and a hem-appears to hang on a real coat rack. Using mahogany to sculpt an object that is traditionally made of cloth, Castle wittily plays with the definitions of art and reality, sculpture and functional object.
1383 As one of the most important fashion and advertising photographers of the 1920s and 1930s, Paul Outerbridge often reduced objects to their essential forms. The resulting images are refined, abstract compositions akin to early Modernist experiments. Of the numerous influential ad photographs taken by Outerbridge, Advertisement for George P. Ide Company remains his most famous. Vanity Fair Harpers Bazaar With his fierce attention to tone, lighting, and composition, Outerbridge managed to elevate this advertisement for Ide shirt collars from a simple sales solicitation to a stylized still life. The crisp contrast of the curved form of the collar against the checkered tile presents the product with an elegance that speaks to both high fashion and art. The MFAH owns the only known 8 x 10 version of this image printed in gelatin silver, as well as this 4 x 5 version printed in platinum, as typically preferred by the artist. After studying at the Clarence H. White School of Photography in New York, Outerbridge began to publish his photographs in and magazines and to work in advertising. In the 1930s, Outerbridge become a pioneer of color photography using the carbro-color process, challenging the then-prevalent view that color photography was a purely commercial medium. uTo view specific works by Outerbridge in the collection, contact the museums , for an appointment.
791 This entire table has been carved to resemble a lotus, an aquatic plant depicted often in Japanese art. The object has been treated with jin-di-sugi , a Japanese technique for artificially aging wood. By the turn of the 20th century, Minneapolis was a prosperous community with its own thriving Arts and Crafts industry. The cityxb4s leading proponent of artistic design was John Scott Bradstreet, whose cooperative craft center, closely modeled on the utopian ideals of William Morris, produced imaginative interiors for a select clientele. One of Bradstreets most creative works, this tabletop is carved as a lotus blossom, with the pedestal and base as its stem and roots. The triumphant result is a combination of a traditional tea-table form, Japonisme, and American Art Nouveau design.
781 The Kwakiutl culture of the Northwest Coast of North America was well known for its woodworking tradition. Large feast bowls were frequently carved in the shapes of animals. This bowl represents a fierce sea lion with an eagle head as its tail. potlatches The sea lion and eagle were important animal ancestors. As such, they appeared frequently on totem poles and artworks. The powerful sea lion was respected yet hunted. It was valuable for its thick, warm pelt and intestines that were used for bow strings, and as an oil and food source. Feast bowls were used by the Kwakiutl at , or gift-giving festivals. Potlatches included dances, performances, a gift exchange, and feasting. The skill of carvers could raise ordinary objects to the status of art. This bowl is such a work.
1090 This painting is one of eight known versions that include rhymes in the borders referring to the biblical prophecy of Isaiah, which expresses the hope and promise of peace on earth. The words also allude to a historical event: William Penns , which Edward Hicks believed to represent a partial fulfillment of Isaiahs prophecy, with the Quakers establishing a peaceable kingdom on earth. Few American artists are as beloved as Hicks, a devout Pennsylvania Quaker preacher and painter whose fascination with the religious theme of the peaceable kingdom constitutes one of the most popular and complex stories in American art. Toylike animals; placid landscape scenes, mostly of the Delaware Water Gap; and renditions of Penns treaty consistently populate Hickss kingdoms-so peaceable in their ideal of universal harmony, yet weighted with national and religious concerns of the time. Naively and at times crudely painted, Hickss canvases nonetheless radiate passion and charm, and their underlying sources and motivations suggest a rare complexity in the field of so-called American folk art.
916 Mary Cassatt was the only American, and one of only three women, to exhibit with the Impressionists. Early in her career, Cassatt thought of herself primarily as a painter, dismissing printmaking as reproductive and mechanical, but she later realized that prints provided a locus for experimentation and variation. Under the Horse-Chestnut Tree, Working first in black and white, Cassatt began incorporating color into her prints after viewing the 1890 exhibition of Japanese ukiyo-e prints at the xc9cole des Beaux-Arts. No other artist succeeded in adapting the spirit of the Japanese color woodcut to the Western medium of etching as effectively as Cassatt. In Japonisme the combination of drypoint and aquatint shows remarkable juxtapositions of thin graphic lines and solid blocks of watery color. She underscores the stylistic idiom of with flattened modeling, bold outlines, and an oblique use of perspective.
1475 The artists of the Hudson River School ventured far beyond the New York region suggested in the name that was applied to them. Here, for example, Frederic Church depicts Cotopaxi, an active volcano in Ecuador. The tiny foreground figures suggest the insignificance of people in comparison with the natural wonders that surround them: the volcano, the waterfall, and the lush tropical foliage. Cotopax A member of the second generation of Romantic landscape painters, Church ranks among the most influential American artists during the period between 1850 and 1875. As a youth, he studied with Thomas Cole, one of the Hudson River School founders, and Coles renderings of the Sicilian volcano Mount Etna may have provided inspiration for Cotopaxi i. More directly, Church conceived of this work following a visit to South America in 1853, after which he depicted the cone-shaped volcano repeatedly for nearly a decade. Painted at a turbulent moment in Americas history, before the outbreak of the Civil War, u embodies Churchs response to current events. The smoldering volcano in the background carries portents of destruction, and the palm tree-which does not exist on the actual site of Cotopaxi-symbolizes both Latin America and the Garden of Eden. In addition to containing inherent moralistic messages, awe-inspiring American Romantic landscape paintings such as this one also served as documents of distant, exotic sites in the era before photography and modern travel.
1145 For more than three decades, James Drake has mined the complexities of the Texas-Mexico border culture of El Paso and its neighboring Ciudad Juarez in a series of stark installations, videos, and powerful drawings. Drake moved with his family from the Texas Panhandle to El Paso in the 1960s. Juarez/El Paso, In the mid-1980s, Drake began a project titled Juarez/El Paso (Boxcar) which responded to specific border events. During the summer of 1987, 18 undocumented immigrants suffocated to death when the boxcar in which they were hiding was sidelined outside the town of Sierra Blanco, near El Paso. One man survived, and he later recounted that the xeccoyotexee who had arranged their passage deliberately locked the boxcar, throwing them a crowbar before closing the door. memorializes this incident. Drake offers a vivid image of the isolated boxcar. Drawn in charcoal and framed in steel, it has a material affinity with the actual coal, railroad spikes, and crowbar that are placed in the foreground. The two-part drawing and installation forces the viewer to empathize with the men who lost their lives trying to enter the United States.
1558 Tango displays the elegant and fluid geometries associated with the best of sculptor Elie Nadelmans work. This European xe9migrxe9 developed a quality of playfulness, grace, and charm-hallmarks of his style-by distilling references to both folk art and the newer trends in abstraction in American art at the time. Nadelmans sculptures derive from observed nature: specifically performers, entertainers, members of elite and vaudeville society, pianists, conductors, hosts and hostesses, and, as illustrated here, dancing couples. To produce this work, Nadelman used cherry wood. He brushed the surface with gesso and then painted each figure, wiping and rubbing the wood in order to create an aged, roughened surface that resembles the American folk art sculptures he admired and collected. Here, an elegantly dressed gentleman in black tie guides his graceful partner through the steps of the tango, a Latin American dance craze that raged in Europe and the United States during and after World War I. Although the tango is well known for its seductive qualities, this one is danced by a buttoned-up pair who perform its steps far from the ports of Buenos Aires. Nadelman simplifies forms, refining the curves and counter-curves, the masses and counter-masses. This sculpture becomes a playful image of the couple suspended in motion, gliding toward each other. Indeed, Nadelmans skill resides in isolating the sexual energy of the dance and filling the empty spaces between the man and the woman, capturing the charged moment just before their hands clasp.
1330 Capital of the Rhode Island colony, Newport was an active center for coastal commerce. Its cabinet industry benefited from the towns shipping interests-her artisans producing furniture for local consumption, as well as export. In time, two families, the Townsends and the Goddards, came to dominate the trade. Displayed in the Drawing Room at Bayou Bend, this splendid bureau table is recognized as one of the most brilliant renditions of the Newport block-front-a design consisting of a recessed center panel flanked by two raised panels topped by gracefully carved shells. It is generally acknowledged as the most original design achievement to emanate from colonial America. This example is believed to have been made for Samuel Vernon, a prominent merchant, and was intended to store jewelry, buckles, combs, and brushes, with the kneehole cupboard housing a wig stand. The museums table is confidently attributed to John Townsend who, during the course of his lengthy career, signed or labeled more than thirty pieces of furniture, a number far greater than that of any other colonial cabinetmaker. This unparalleled body of documented work makes it possible to identify his cabinetry with a high degree of certainty. As such, Townsends furniture chronicles the makers rise to become one of Americas premier master craftsmen.
1331 One of Frederic Remingtons masterpieces, this painting depicts cowboys hiding in a waterhole, their source of survival in the arid desert and of protection from the pursuing Plains Indians. The manipulated perspective gives the scene a panoramic quality and introduces a large shadow to convey the idea of passing-the ever-present threat of death looming in the Western territories during the Indian Wars, as well as the passing of the West itself. Fight for the Waterhole As an illustrator, painter, sculptor, and writer, Remington created a popular image of the American West as a heroic battleground for U.S. westward expansion. His knowledge of the West grew from his frequent trips there to make sketches, take photographs, and buy the artifacts of Native American cultures and Western frontier life. Back in his studio near New York City, he chronicled vanquished Native American cultures and created images that popularized the cowboy as a national folk hero. Colliers Weekly was published in 1903 in u as part of Remingtons four-year contract with the magazine to reproduce one painting each month. This alliance encouraged Remington to experiment with his technique, and as seen here, the results included looser brushwork, refined compositions, a bolder palette, and the development of psychological qualities in his art.
975 uAdrian Saxe has made ceramic vessels that challenge traditional ideas since the early 1970s. In particular, he often interprets and critiques social and cultural conventions though his ceramic forms. The artists vessels combine various techniques, clay bodies, historical styles, and recognizable decorative elements into witty and sometimes subversive works, Saxes vessels can often be ornate and are always sculptural in form. Parisienne Chainsaw Massacre u features gold luster and deep-hued porcelain glazes. The main body is in the form of a torso, a shape that Saxe used to great effect in monumental sculptures from the early 1980s. In addition to the chainsaw bands, the work is topped by an antelope finial. Saxe views the antelope as a symbol of natures energy. His use of animal forms dates to the 1970s when he studied animals at the Los Angeles Zoo in conjunction with his coursework at school and his subsequent interest in 18th-century metalwork and trophies,
790 With its saguaro cactus decoration and scenes of an idyllic adobe village, this unusual flask served as a form of advertising for the Mexican silver market in the 19th century. After the Civil War, Alexander Robey Shepherd became one of the only governors the District of Columbia ever had. He enacted public-works projects that breathed new life into the war-weary city but that also incurred large deficits, forcing him out of office and eventually out of the country. Shepherd moved his family to Batopilas, Chihuahua, Mexico, where he purchased a silver mine. Soon wealthy beyond his dreams, Shepherd returned to D.C. and commissioned the Gorham Silver Company to create 15 sterling-silver flasks (using Batopilas silver) as promotional gifts for various Mexican and American officials.
1084 These spring-hinged butterfly clips are part of the celebrated 19th-century silver service commissioned by John The Silver King Mackay and his wife. The sumptuous service for 24 was made from nearly one ton of silver sent directly from the Comstock mine to Tiffany & Co. in New York. An Irish immigrant, Mackay became a multimillionaire in 1873 from his stake in the Comstock Lode, one of the largest silver strikes in history. The year after joining the ranks of the richest families in America, Mrs. Mackay travelled down into the mine to see the source of their wealth. Surrounded by the rich veins of silver, she is said to have asked her husband if they could make a fine and memorable thing from it. The decision was reached then and there to have a silver service crafted by the best silversmith in the country. The pieces were heavily ornamented with references to Persian and Mughal, as well as Chinese and Japanese, designs. The bowls and tureens were covered with lotus flowers, cherry blossoms, and engraved Chinese dragons. The ice cream dish had elephant trunks as feet.
1134 This easy chair, intact with its vivid Irish-stitch needlework cover, is justly celebrated as one of the most highly prized examples of 18th-century American upholstered furniture still in existence. The work reflects the collaboration of three individuals: the needlewoman, in all probability a member of the upper class who commissioned the frame; the chair maker; and the upholsterer who constructed the foundation and attached the embroidery. The latter would also make certain that the chair was fully stuffed to ensure its occupant the utmost comfort. On this example, one of only three known with stitched covers, the back is upholstered with an English stamped harrateen, a woolen fabric patterned with meandering bands, butterflies, and flowers. In 18th-century America, upholstery work was the principal decorative arts-related profession in which women could earn a livelihood. The relatively undisturbed frame of this chair presents an extraordinary record of colonial upholstery which, in turn, contributes toward its significance in establishing historical accuracy in the documenting the upholstery of period furniture.
1250 The 1690s witnessed a dramatic evolution in the design and construction of American furniture, which was introduced to the colonies through England and, in turn, through the exertions of the Dutch and French. The massive, vertical Late Renaissance style gave way to the lighter, more elegantly proportioned Early Baroque. London The high chest of drawers is an iconic statement of this aesthetic. An imposing form that originated during this period, it was intended for the bedchamber. This architectural example is defined by its bold cornice and molding surmounting a convex frieze. The base is reminiscent of a Roman triumphal arch. Because the chests turned legs and feet could not be veneered, it is likely that they were originally painted to simulate the burl veneers used on the case. Boston The sophistication of this chest suggests that it was commissioned for someone of great prominence. The work embodies the comments of an Englishman who visited Boston about 1700: A Gentleman from London would almost think himself at home at . . . when he observes the Numbers of People, their Houses, their Furniture, their Tables, their Dress, and Conversation, which perhaps is as splendid and showy, as that of the most considerable Tradesmen in .
1198 The Zuni people believed that frogs, tadpoles, hummingbirds, and dragonflies forecasted rain and water, which were precious natural forces in an arid land. Hummingbirds were related to agricultural fertility because they drink flower nectar and spread pollen. Their bright plumage was associated with rainbows. kivas In the late 19th century, the Zuni Pueblo of New Mexico reached the height of artistry in its pottery making. Zuni vessels were decorated with rhythmical repetition of geometric designs, expressed with lines rather than solid painting. The outlines were often filled with hatching, a pattern of parallel or crossed lines. Sacred figural images were typically used on jars consecrated for religious ceremonies and kept in buildings called . Tourist demand for these kiva jars led to the creation of vessels like this one, decorated with religious symbols but not blessed or used ritually. uA ceremonial break-a short interruption of the lines that separate the neck from the rest of the vessel-is a characteristic of Zuni pottery. A Zuni legend warned that a potter would die if the line were not broken. The break also prevented the potters spirit from being trapped in the vessel.
847 uBeaumont-born John Alexander has rooted his career in his native landscape, from his first paintings of the East Texas coast and Piney Woods to his later studies of the local landcape of New Yorks Long Island, u has the lush palette of a nocturnal swamp. The artist has revealed, however, that the painting was inspired by the sight of his cat, Mr. Friend, peering through a fish tank. The specter of the cat is repeated across the canvas, as are images of fish; an inverted deaths head on the right indicates the cats intent, uThis work marks a turning point in Alexanders career. Even after he made his home in New York, leaving the cat behind with his ex-wife in Texas, Alexander frequently incorporated Mr. Friend in his art. In , Alexander blends Abstraction, Expressionism, and a brilliant eye for detail in a sweeping and energetic canvas.
1199 Ed Ruschas landmark images of American culture incorporate graphic elements ubiquitous to the commercial realm. An innovator in the 1950s of the West Coast Pop movement, Ruscha transitioned away from the Pop Art sensibility in the 1960s and soon directed his focus to a more conceptual point of view as he began to explore the ways in which text and images influence meaning and interpretation. Untitled (1) and Untitled (2) In his diptych, Ruscha exuberantly depicts the American sublime while subtly distorting such popular imagery with his use of text. On the left panel, Ruscha paints a crisp and monumental mountain peak with the letters CO. sprawled across its terrain; the image takes on an almost brochure-like quality as it welcomes tourists to take part in the rustic grandeur, presumably of Colorado. The right panel, however, offers an adverse scene, as an austere rooftop amputates the mountain peak and text, disturbing the serene landscape. Now the image appears congested, and the CO. alludes to Company in the commercial sense. With his jarring juxtapositions, Ruscha poignantly conveys the harm of modern industrys appropriation of nature and satirizes the nations overconsumption.
899 In the monumental oil painting Black on White , Robert Motherwell characteristically balances contradictory elements-intellect and emotion, shape and line, sweeping gesture and measured rhythms-in pursuit of lyrical and poetic expression. This majestic work was composed in panoramic format. uAmerican artist Motherwell was associated with the Abstract Expressionist generation of painters who emphasized the process of painting. One of the youngest of this group, he stressed the emotive powers of color and the gestural brushstroke in his broadly expansive compositions. Through his writings, Motherwell served as the Abstract Expressionists major theorist. In 1951 he stated, One might truthfully say that abstract art is stripped bare of other things in order to intensify it, its rhythms, spatial intervals, and color structure. Abstraction is a process of emphasis, and emphasis vivifies life.
862 James Turrell creates ecstatic and deeply beautiful art through his use Acro, Green of the purest of materials: light, framed within space. Acro, Green is an iconic example. In what came to be known as his Projection Piece series (1966-69), Turrell cast a beam of light from a high-intensity projector across a room onto a mural surface. Where the projection hit the wall (or corner) it became a sharply defined geometric form, both actual and illusionary. u, from this founding stage in Turrells career, is created by projecting a single, controlled beam of light from the opposing corner, of the room. As it hits the corner, the projected light gives the illusion of a three-dimensional cubic form. The first version of this corner installation was created in 1967 with white light. A year later, Turrell made this variation in green-a color he uses sparingly.
736 Trained in Europe as a traditional blacksmith, metalworker Samuel Yellin was credited in 1912 with reviving the craft of wrought iron in America. As a craftsman, Yellin believed in working out his designs in three-dimensional sketches in iron. These small studies show the blacksmiths process and creativity as expressed with the hammer. uYellins ironwork was commissioned for the private homes of the Vanderbilts and the DuPonts as well as for public spaces at Harvard University and the National Cathedral in Washington, D.C. This example demonstrates Yellins extraordinary ability to manipulate metal. The naturalistic tendrils have been hand-pulled, giving the impression that the material is far more pliable than it is in reality.
913 uIn this three-panel painting, Brice Marden creates an abstract portrait of his wife, Helen Harrington Marden, herself an artist. Her height and shoulder width determine each panels dimensions, and the title of the work-, references her hair color. Blonde Throughout his career, Marden has demonstrated the importance of pure painting. In the late 1960s, he established his signature monochromatic style, bridging the painterly qualities of Abstract Expressionism with the pared-down sensibility of Minimalism. Blonde In Blonde , Marden eliminated any linear or drawing elements from the monochromatic composition; by joining three panels, however, the space between the components comes to function as drawing. Silently luminous, balances a dense surface, ripe with pictorial incident, with formal simplicity. Having reduced the composition to blocks of uninflected color, Marden makes each panel mutely its own.
93 uTo view specific works by Adams in the collection, contact the museums , for an appointment.
1284 This luminous landscape was inspired by the rather flat and ordinary countryside of Shinnecock, Long Island, where William Merritt Chase taught outdoor painting. Chases deceptively simple composition testifies to his ability to make the ordinary seem extraordinary. Originally from the Midwest, Chase studied at the National Academy of Design in New York, and then in Europe at the Munich Academy, where artists were encouraged to depict ordinary subject matter, and to handle paint broadly using a limited, dark palette enlivened with small bits of bright color. After further study and travel abroad, Chase returned to New York, where he became a highly visible art figure known for his generosity, eclecticism, and charisma, and for his Impressionist scenes of public parks and his bold portraits. Chases most consistent and brilliant body of work is the series of Impressionist landscapes he painted from 1891 to 1902, during summers at Shinnecock. This imposing example provides a fresh, seemingly spontaneous interpretation of the movement of clouds and sunlight and their effects on the coastal landscape below. Sandwiched in between the scraggly clumps of dune grass, heather, and sky are pink dunes highlighted by a streak of red, and a sliver of sea dotted with white boats.
1367 Here, in a drinking game called walking the chalk, a drunkard is challenged to see whether he is sober enough to walk in a straight line marked on the tavern floor. The work brilliantly expresses two major themes that dominated early American genre paintings: the growing concern about divisions between the North and South in the pre-Civil War years, and the social interactions among ordinary Americans in public places. This lively tavern scene by American painter Charles Deas is rich with hidden meanings that audiences would have understood in the 1830s. The figure of the con man thumbs his nose (as much a sign of indignation in the 19th century as it is today) and invites the viewer to question the scene as a scam. Although commonly a sign of fidelity, the slouched dog may refer to the popular phrase drunk as a dog, raising concerns about the excessive consumption of alcohol that would culminate in the temperance movement. The issue of slavery is suggested by the presence of the African American straddling the line, expressing the mounting apprehensions about national unity and balance as states entered the Union as either slave-holding or free. Such is the stuff of 19th-century American genre paintings that their potential meanings may be endlessly discussed and debated, the very feature of U.S. democracy that this art form aimed to celebrate.
1339 Thomas Eakinss late portraits, which include this powerful likeness, are among the artists most poignant works. Here, Eakins focuses upon the two elements of portraiture traditionally deemed most important: heads and hands. The piercing gaze and the taut, sinewy hands of the aging subject carry the emotional weight of the painting and testify to Eakinss life-long commitment to portraying the human condition in all its heroism and frailty. uCommissioned from Eakins by the Fidelity Trust Company for 700, this portrait of Fidelitys president, John B. Gest, has little to do with what one might think of as corporate portraiture: bland, formulaic images of seated, appropriately attired men intended to portray serious-minded, upstanding members of the community. Indeed, Gest performed the role to a T, serving as a trustee of the University of Pennsylvania, the Historical Society of Pennsylvania, and the Presbyterian Hospital in Philadelphia, in addition to fulfilling his duties at the financial company he served. However, by turning Gests gaze away from the viewer, Eakins turns any possible engagement with the sitter into a study and an observation of the visible effects of old age. This portrait reveals the artists intense devotion to realism through its truthful accuracy and penetrating portrayal of the subjects character,
1002 In 1964, Robert Rauschenberg became the first American artist to win the grand prize at the Venice Biennale. Almost a decade later he returned to Venice, drawing inspiration from the floating city in a new series of sculptures, including most notably Sor Aqua (Venetian) . By ennobling an ordinary bathtub, Rauschenberg conjures an air of grace in decline. Sor Aqua For half a century, Texas-born Rauschenberg stood as one of the most prolific and celebrated figures in American art. With an artistic practice characterized by vigor, curiosity, and intellect, he continuously moved across the realms of painting, sculpture, photography, printmaking, dance, and performance. Sor Aqua u alludes not only to Venices canals but also to its grand, deteriorating architecture. Yet the rusted materials evoke something more ethereal: the levitating forms are both awkward and otherworldly. Floating in between the genres of sculpture and installation art, , sets up a powerful opposition of form and metaphor.
1264 Based in Los Angeles, John Baldessari is one of the most influential conceptual artists of his generation. This installation consists of five photographs that were matted, framed, and then hung askew. The sixth frame contains an anecdote about jazz musician Thelonious Monk that illuminates the concept of the work: Theres a story about Thelonious Monk going around his apartment tilting all the pictures hanging on the wall. It was his idea of teaching his wife a different kind of order. When she saw the pictures askew on the wall she would straighten them. And when Monk saw them straightened on the wall, he would tilt them. Until one day his wife left them hanging on the wall tilted. Baldessari began as a painter but in 1970 dramatically renounced his painting career and vowed to make only Post-Studio Art. Here, he not only demonstrates the literally tilted frames of the Monk story but also creates an analogy for a different type of order in the representation of art. By tilting his own frames, Baldessari asks viewers to consider why they were so committed to a perfectly straight frame when there is more than one way that an object can be presented. uTo view specific works by Baldessari in the collection, contact the museums , for an appointment.
1010 Throughout his career, David Bates has made everyday life on the Gulf of Mexico his chief subject matter. Bates brings an intimacy and naturalism to these landscapes and portraits, creating preparatory sketches on site. Stringer of Sheepshead I In the early 1990s Bates began an extended series of paintings of the Galveston and Bolivar coastal communities, a change of focus that affected both his palette and compositional structures. typifies this shift in Batess work. The image is bathed is brilliant sunlight, the standing figure is closely cropped, and the composition is broken up into forceful, structural elements as the line of fish, the planks of the pier, the waves, and the clouds establish a staccato rhythm across the canvas. He endows one of this regions most important activities-fishing-with heroic integrity. The large scale of the work, as well as Batess profoundly physical and sculptural handling of the paint, monumentalizes a pier fisherman and his string of freshly caught sheepshead.
1325 Stuart Davis fragments the elements that make up this harbor scene in Massachusetts-sea, boats, piers, buoys, tackle, and flag-and represents them with patterns of bright color arranged to convey a lively rhythm. In fact, Davis conceived of compositions such as this one in terms of the staccato pulse of American jazz. (International Exhibition of Modern Art) Over a career spanning more than half a century, Davis uniquely combined Cubist syntax with the ambience of American life, providing a bridge between the first generation of American Modernists and the later Abstract Expressionists. A student of Realist painter Robert Henri, Davis participated in the landmark 1913 Armory Show Gloucester Harbor in New York and was inspired by the display of European avant-garde art. Daviss assimilation of Modernist techniques in general, and of Cubism in particular, was strongly colored by his avocation of Realism. Here, the flat, patterned forms reduce spatial relationships and contradict illusionism. At the same time, Davis maintains a real sense of the bustle and life of a busy harbor. was executed during Daviss tenure in the Works Progress Administration program as a government-supported artist. It was featured in the exhibition of contemporary American art sponsored by the WPA at the New York Worlds Fair in 1939.
1178 Albert Paley is one of the worlds foremost metalworkers, with a career spanning more than four decades. Paley made jewelry for an incredibly prolific 10 years, during which he set new standards for American jewelry with his large-scale, humanistic, technically superior, and ornamental works designed to work with the body, not merely to decorate it. Double Fibula Brooch Paley began first casting, then chasing, gold and silver-his preferred materials. Soon he was using forging techniques, which allowed him to achieve an aesthetic best described as Abstract Lyricism, with flowing curves and otherworldly nature reminiscent of Art Nouveau (but not based on the style) and with technique linked to the spontaneous working methods of the Abstract Expressionists. For , Paley forged the two separate disks, each with a swinging pin, from a design based on the Celtic penannular brooch. By beveling the disks edges and pulling them up, he was able to achieve a three-dimensional form. He combined the disks with a central stem layered with gold scrolls, bands of alternating pearls and silver teardrops, and pulled floriform silver shapes, which reinforced the feeling of motion.
1237 This portrait depicts John Singer Sargents lifelong friend Sarah Sears, a photographer and patron of the arts in Boston. Her alert pose, intense gaze, and upper-body posture contrast with the seemingly relaxed position of her lower body, an instance of how Sargent seemed to capture, as one critic wrote, the nervous tension of the age. Sears played an important role in a number of artists careers by buying their works and providing additional support. Together with her friend, and often rival, art collector Isabella Stewart Gardner, Sears served as a preeminent Boston tastemaker at the turn of the 20th century. In addition, Sears was an accomplished painter and photographer who exhibited her work in important international exhibitions such as the Columbian Exposition of 1893 in Chicago and the Pan-American Exposition of 1901 in Buffalo, New York. In this painting, Searss satin dress exemplifies Sargents extraordinary skill at rendering white, subtly nuanced with painterly flourishes of lavender, blue, and pink. The stunning surface display of paint connotes elegance and dash, and illustrates what made Sargent the portraitist of choice for the aristocracy of England and America in the late 19th and early 20th centuries.
1317 uRevered as the leading innovator of video art, Nam June Paik explored the relationship between people and the rapidly changing environment of the media age. Displaced by the Korean War in 1950, Paik traveled the world, residing in Hong Kong, Tokyo, Munich, and New York. Paiks experiences across the globe led him not only to realize the artistic potential of tech-, nology, but also to measure the distance from his native Korean culture. Rose Art Memory Paik directly confronts the issues of assimilation and modernization in his two-channel video image Rose Art Memory by combining modern and traditional influences. Arranged in a grid format, 14 monitors set to one channel encircle six monitors set to a different channel. The two videos stream simultaneously, generating a pulsating and hypnotic effect. Inscribed within each corner of the traditional, red lacquer frame are the four points of the compass, thus linking the piece to a specific Asian heritage. Created the year Seoul hosted the 1988 Olympic Games, profoundly conveys the experience of impermanence and instability within a hyper-stimulating medium. Furthermore, by juxtaposing ultramodern tech- nology against traditional framework, Paik questions whether such extreme cultural changes will ultimately lead to the degradation of a rich history.
974 In the early 1950s, Franz Kline began paring down his paintings, purging them of all color and representational references. Wotan is one of his most austere compositions, focused simply on the stark contrast between his black brushstrokes and their white background. Kline insisted that all areas of his canvases were equal in weight: I paint the white as well as the black, and the white is just as important. Wotan uThis iconic image records the power of the artists vision and the authority of his gesture. The title, , u, refers to a Germanic deity of the pre-Christian era. A king of the gods, Wotan could also assume the role of wanderer, seer, and poet. Additionally, Wotan was a central character in Richard Wagners , operas, which Kline often listened to in the art studio. For Kline, the title is not intended to describe the character of his painting; rather, by summoning up a mythic past, Kline claims a similar timelessness for his bold and revolutionary work.
1443 The Crying Room: A Memorial to the Ancestors bears witness to the enormous human suffering of African slaves as they were transported against their will to the Americas. Artist Vicki Meek represents the terrible history of the Middle Passage through a sophisticated layering of sources, ranging from the bleak records of the European slave ships to musical chants that attest to the survival of traditional cultures in the New World. The Crying Room Dominating Public memorials are important because they allow a society or a community to reconcile its grief. The collective grief over the loss of the millions of ancestors lost during the Middle Passage and through the mass lynchings of the 20th century has never had an outlet. Consequently, this pent-up grief manifests itself in many inexplicable ways. . . . strongThe Crying Room: A Memorial to the Ancestors /strongis meant to allow us to remember and grieve for all those many ancestors whose lives were sacrificed. is an elaborate Yoruba ideograph representing The Lifting of the Plate, or the final ascension that takes one from death into the realm of the ancestors. Another wall of the installation chronicles the horrifying mathematical calculations of slavers who estimated acceptable losses in human life; and the third is inscribed with symbols of hope and redemption. Upon leaving the gallery, the visitor is invited to add a personal comment to the memorial wall. -Vicki Meek
1983 uA monument to early Modernism, Paul Strands , demonstrates an abandonment of Pictorialism, characterized by a romantic and painterly style, in favor of carefully rendered Abstraction. Ceramic and Fruit uAfter studying with photographer and social reformer Lewis Hine at the Ethical Culture School in New York, Strand traveled throughout Europe. Upon his return to the United States, Strand compiled a portfolio that garnered the 26-year-old a one-man show with photographer and gallery owner Alfred Stieglitz. Strands work was of particular and timely interest to Stieglitz, who had been seeking photographic divergence from the then-dominant style, Pictorialism. Stieglitz sought images that could keep pace with the 20th-century experience, and Strands work fit the bill, In the summer of 1916, Strand produced a series of compositional studies that pushed the medium of photography into artistic terrain that had been considered too complex to master with a camera. Influenced by the work of Paul Cxe9zanne, Pablo Picasso, and other Cubist artists, Strand worked closely with still lifes, removing subjects from their normal surroundings and shaping novel approaches to perspective and composition. Ceramic and Fruit. uTo view specific works by Strand in the collection, contact the museums , for an appointment. Through confronting issues of space, dimensionality, and perspective, Strands photographic still lifes, along with modern views of the city by Stieglitz and other photographers, created a brand-new Modernist aesthetic within photography. Strand employed what he called straight photographic methods to clearly see the limitations and at the same time the potential qualities of his medium. This balance became the essence of the 20th-century American Modernist movement. Strands early still lifes are richly printed and exceptionally rare-he made 14 in total, and only one print of u Strands innovative approach to still life is an important testament to modern art.
1266 The title Leda refers to the Greco-Roman myth about a god who takes the form of a swan and then seduces a woman. Here, David Smith offers a witty interpretation of the unlikely act of lovemaking between a bird and a woman. Leda Though Smith was not the first sculptor to use steel, no other artist has devoted his career to the medium with such brilliance and mastery. He learned the technique of welding steel from working in a car factory, and he applied this skill to the art of sculpture, forging his first steel work in 1933. Steel offered unique qualities for Smith, as he explained: What it can do in arriving at form economically, no other material can do. The metal itself possesses little art history. What associations it possesses are of this century: power, structure, movement, progress, suspension, destruction, brutality. is one of Smiths more poetic early steel constructions. The image of the swan is suggested by the graceful arcing neck and wing of the piece, while the theme of rape is conveyed by the diagonal thrust of one element piercing another. Myths and historical associations remained of central importance to Smith throughout his career, and many of his later works incorporate a balance between subject matter and radical abstraction.
989 The 1754 publication The Gentleman and Cabinet-Makers Director by Thomas Chippendale profoundly affected the development of American furniture design. The Director was the first important book devoted entirely to cabinetry and as such instructed both English and American cabinetmakers in the richest expressions of the Rococo idiom. In his preface Chippendale noted, Of all the Arts which are either improved or ornamented by Architecture, that of CABINET-MAKING is not only the most useful and ornamental, but capable of receiving as great Assistance from it as any whateveru2026, a stance that is ably translated in this imposing high chest, with its quarter columns, cornice, dentils, and scrolled pediment, elements evocative of an 18th-century door frame. A classic American manifestation is the marriage of the late Baroque and the Rococo. By the mid-18th century the form was deemed old-fashioned in England, but in the colonies it persisted and reached its apogee in Philadelphia.
1013 Toots Zynskys glass vessels are frequently described as a combination of painting and sculpture because of the brushstroke-like color she employs. Influenced by her extensive travels to South Africa, the Far East, and South America, Zynsky uses vivid colors and textures that reflect the indigenous birds and textiles observed on her journeys. Acquamare Chaos Zynsky achieves her extraordinary forms through a technique that is her own. Glass threads are pulled from Murano glass rods by a special machine created for her by Dutch engineer Mathijs Teunissen van Manen. The colored threads are layered on top of one another and fused with heat. Zynsky then manipulates the fused threads in a mold or stainless steel bowl to create her stunning forms. Shapes are organic and emphasize depth and movement through the layering of both translucent and opaque colors. In , the palette of blues, greens, and oranges reflects the sea and its life forms. However, its calming tones belie the reality of chaos in the water.
1331 With extensive commercial activity and its position as the young nations capital, Philadelphia was 18th-century Americas largest, most cosmopolitan center. English and Continental models set the fashion, as evidenced by this lavish armchair, representing one of the most ambitious collaborations by American craftsmen emulating European neoclassicism. Originally part of a larger suite (now in various private and public institutions), the armchair is an American interpretation of what George Hepplewhite called a cabriole chair and Thomas Sheraton a Drawing Room Chair. The latter commented that These chairs are finished in white and gold, an elegant combination introduced to Philadelphia. In fact, the armchair incorporates applied gilded composition ornament in place of carving, a technique common in English furniture but rarely used in America except sometimes in church furniture and looking glasses. The substitution of cast composition ornaments for carving, ubiquitous in the English cabinet trade, is highly unusual in America. Scottish designer Robert Adam was the first to patent composition, an amalgam of chalk, rosin, glue, and drying oil. In spite of the obvious foreign influences, this armchair, shown in the Federal Parlor at Bayou Bend, is more accurately an expression of American design and craftsmanship.
1047 With his oversized, soft-sculpture version of a common household fan, Claes Oldenburg brings a surprising sense of humor and irreverence to the gallery space. In Giant Soft FanGhost Version , Oldenburg takes a common desk fan and enlarges it to nearly 10 feet tall. Instead of using the original material of the industrial fan-metal-he swaps hard for soft and realizes his sculpture in canvas. Ghost Version uOldenburg is one of a number of artists who, in the 1960s, began to examine the objects and images of consumer culture. These so-called Pop artists turned everyday items into compositional sources for their art. Oldenburgs jarring sense of scale and unexpected use of materials make his reconstructions of everyday objects appear imposing, yet also soft and droopy. He reverses the viewers expectations of what makes a monumental sculpture. The subtitle of this work, , u, refers to the sculptures white color; Oldenburg also made a companion , in black vinyl, now in the collection of the Museum of Modern Art in New York. Giant Soft Fan
1188 uIn 1966, after accepting a teaching position at UCLA, Richard Diebenkorn began working in a studio near the beach in Santa Monicas Ocean Park neighborhood. The artist soon embarked on a new cycle of paintings and drawings, collectively known as the , works. Ocean Park uThe light and architecture of the beach community had a profound influence on Diebenkorns style and imagery. He abandoned his figurative vocabulary and invented an abstract language, partially reverting to his early interest in landscape-based abstraction, but rendered from an aerial perspective. Diebenkorn extrapolated the internal architecture of his , works from the stark compositions of two paintings by Henri Matisse: Ocean Park and View of Notre Dame . French Window at Collioure In this three-part work from 1972, Diebenkorn pares his Ocean Park imagery down to its most essential components. Executed in monochrome, except for the third (green) panel, Untitled u is the artistxeds homage to the austerity of Matisses window paintings. Realizing the centrality of this triptych to his oeuvre, Diebenkorn kept it in the living room of his Santa Monica home, a touchstone of his quarter-century-long , series.
1514 In this masterpiece of Georgia OKeeffes career, precisely delineated, undulating folds and lucid, three-dimensional forms work together to create an image of potent ambiguity suggesting either portrayals of plant life or, as some critics have argued, abstractions based on the female anatomy. The formal and spatial tension of the arching lines is emphasized by the cropping of the frame, a compositional device shared with photographers such as Alfred Stieglitz. Grey Lines with Black, Blue and Yellow, OKeeffe has become one of the most famous American artists, and her rise to fame was due in large part to her connection with the German-trained Stieglitz. Renowned in his own right as an artist, Stieglitz actively promoted European modernist ideals and encouraged young American artists to experiment with the new formalist language, giving them a venue to show their work at his legendary 291 gallery in New York. When he and OKeeffe met in 1916, Stieglitz had established himself as a staunch supporter of the avant-garde, exhibiting the work of European, as well as American, artists. At Stieglitzs gallery, OKeeffe saw the work of European innovators such as Pablo Picasso and Georges Braque. That influence-along with the aesthetic theories of American artist and educator Arthur Wesley Dow-greatly inspired her own paintings. with its richly nuanced blend of colors, can be compared to European precedents, and it exhibits OKeeffes lifelong allegiance to Dows mantra of filling space in a beautiful way.
1556 Cindy Sherman has built her career on examining the role of celebrity and fame in American culture, and her photographs create a lively artistic discourse about self-performance photography. She stars in all her photographs, and in her series Untitled Film Stills , she explores the roles women play in the movies. Here, Sherman buries her head in a pillow while the light catches her blond wig and shiny negligee. Resembling a scene from a B movie, the picture invites viewers to invent a story about it. By using herself as a model, Sherman makes photographs that deconstruct popular forms of celebrity representation, including film stills. I like the idea that different people can see different things in the same image, even if thats not what I would want them to see, she says. This series, which she began in 1977, tampers with the ways popular images simultaneously define and mask true identity. In the photographs she assumes the persona of a fictional character in a nonexistent film. She insinuates plot and adopts fabricated identities through props, costumes, and poses. Once the scene has been fully staged, Sherman photographs herself using a hidden remote-shutter release. The resulting image looks much like a traditional movie still or publicity photo, but in reality questions whether it is acceptable for a portrait just to have instantaneous appeal, or whether it must offer true psychological or emotional revelations about the subject. uTo view specific works by Sherman in the collection, contact the museums , for an appointment.
893 Dorothy Hood painted this beautifully balanced abstraction at a time when the island republic of Haiti was experiencing severe social repression. One of her first monumental paintings, the eloquent composition creates a sense of foreboding. Haiti uHoods abstract canvases simultaneously evoke interior, psychic spaces and sweeping, natural landscapes. Trained at the Rhode Island School of Design, Hood moved to Mexico City in 1941, where she developed a lifelong interest in Surrealism and Latin American art. She continued to travel frequently to Central America after moving to Houston in 1962, represents an unusually political statement for the artist. The swift-moving washes of gold earth tones and the blue and white of sky and sea are united under the shadow of an ominous black center. The painting conjures the island of Haiti as a newly born wonder, she stated, lyrical yet tragic.
800 Beautifully crafted and perfectly proportioned, this side chair is decorated with a restrained design of inlaid blossoms. The cherrywood frame was ebonized (stained or painted black) to resemble Japanese lacquer. In contrast to the flamboyance found in much 19th-century design, Japanese-inspired furniture was distinctive for its elegant simplicity. Influenced by Japanese ornament, the Herter Brothers company began producing its own interpretations in the early 1870s. German-born immigrants Gustave and Christian Herter were preeminent among the designers and cabinetmakers who helped nouveau-riche Americans outfit grand residences. The half brothers designed furniture and interiors for the sumptuous homes of Gilded Age clients such as Jay Gould, J. Pierpont Morgan, and William H. Vanderbilt.
1133 Reworking the genre of self-portraiture, Mequitta Ahuja probes the construction of both image and identity. To create her paintings, the artist weaves undersized brushstrokes into larger, textured surfaces. This weaving of paint underscores the structure of the images and, in her words, the deliberate and highly constructed presentation of the subjects identity. Off the Edge Off the Edge shows Ahuja confidently stepping across the field, her hand clasping a remote shutter control. Borrowing from Dutch portraiture conventions, Ahujas pose is magisterial and her setting is indeterminate (an ambiguous mix of landscape, hair, and galactic imagery). Off the Edge asserts identity as a form of performance. Ahuja underscores this process by borrowing a pose from the history of art and also by referencing her use of photography. Notable within the composition is the hand-held remote shutter control-Ahuja begins a work by taking studio photos of herself with such an apparatus. Although you may not realize at first that is a self-portrait, the corded shutter control brings you back to the reality of the paintings construction.
1232 uOne of several portraits of Philadelphias McCall family, this painting features a young woman standing erect in front of an Ionic column and beside a swath of crimson drapery and a Rococo marble-topped table on which she rests her hand. Imposing, elegant, and spare, it shows how Robert Feke provided dignified portraits for his clientele, whether in Philadelphia, Boston, Virginia, or Barbados, The first major native-born artist of the British North American colonies, Feke is known for his relatively large, impressive portraits. He borrowed from the tradition of Baroque portraiture, including swags of brightly colored drapery, columns, elegant dresses, and props. His grand portraits of colonists dressed and posed in the guise of English nobility evoke a quality of dignity and grace, and as exemplified in this excellent example, showcase a combination of grandeur and simplicity. At the time Feke painted Anne McCall, she had been married for nine years to her cousin, Samuel, a prominent Philadelphia merchant. Here, she is dressed in a radiant, crystal-buttoned, blue silk dress, with a salmon pink underskirt, accentuated at the narrow waist by a tassel belt. She gracefully holds a peony in her long, tapering fingers.
827 One of the most surprising examples of mid-19th-century American design, this unusual sideboard is densely carved with lifelike depictions of fish and game--an homage to the bounty of the American landscape. uSideboards such as this one graced the dining rooms of wealthy families in the 1800s and were also exhibited at worlds fairs. Cabinetmakers often created grand objects for international expositions as a means of demonstrating their craft skills in dramatic fashion, The bottom of this sideboard is laid out in three parts, all carved in walnut. The left door depicts lobsters, fish, and eel; the right is decorated with game birds; and the central panel features the gun, pouch, bugle, and powder horn associated with the hunt. The magnificent captured stag hanging over it all acts as a centerpiece for the sideboard.
1112 The distinctive turret top and boldly contoured skirt rails of this tea table combine to make it a dynamic Late Baroque creation. One of only five known examples, it is a rare type with numerous scalloped projections that neatly hold teacups and saucers with a teapot and other equipage at the center. The molded edge would have prevented the fragile tea wares from being accidently swept onto the floor. When compared with related tables, differences in their design, carving, and even the rim confirm that they represent the work of more than one shop. A documented source for this design has not been identified. This table represents the fashionable practice of tea drinking in 18th-century America. Serving tea was a sign of politeness and hospitality, and drinking it was a custom of distinctive manners and specific equipment, such as teapots, teacups and saucers, teaspoons, and tea canisters. A sampling of 18th-century Boston inventories reveals that in some households all or part of the tea equipage was prominently displayed on the tea table, such as this one, rather than being stored in cupboards.
950 uAdolph Gottlieb was one of the foremost proponents of Abstract Expressionism. Like many artists of his generation, in the 1930s he participated in the U.S. governments WPA Federal Art Project. Influenced by the xe8migrxe8 Surrealists who sought refuge in New York during World War II, Gottlieb explored a new abstract language, one loaded with mystical and mythological content. , In the mid-1950s Gottlieb began to oppose closed and open forms, a motif that evolved into the famous Bursts that many view as the culmination of his career. Gottlieb reduced his composition to two essential components: a radiant red circle floating above a lively maze of large black brushstrokes. The rival forms one serene and heavenly, the other turbulent and expressive have been seen to represent essential pairs such as order and chaos, female and male, or heaven and earth. Charged with emotional resonance, Penumbra shows Gottlieb at the height of his powers.
1008 Working as both an artist and a writer, Donald Judd sought to overthrow traditional definitions of painting and sculpture. In their place he proposed specific objects that would occupy the same gallery space as the viewer. Judd worked in a pared-down aesthetic with industrially produced materials, a style that came to be known as Minimalism. Untitled uIn his embrace of a reductive and geometric vocabulary, Judds essential form was the box: open, closed, or even stacked in repetition. Instead of creating his pieces in a studio, Judd would have them fabricated by a factory, thereby ensuring a perfect finish. Here, Judd uses the box form to combine structure, color, and material. The brilliant red of the interior bottom reflects against the side panels, fusing surface and light. Further, by placing the object directly on the floor, as opposed to resting it on a pedestal or base, Judd not only emphasizes the object-like quality of the piece but also thrusts , into the physical space of the viewer.
1145 David Smith devoted his career to the exploration of sculptural form through the medium of steel. He admired the material not only for its durability and industrial strength, but also for the beauty of its reflective surface and its responsiveness to burnishing. Two Circle Sentinel exhibits the mastery and delicacy Smith brought to his later steel constructions. The image of the sentinel, or watcher, was a theme that fascinated Smith. He made his first Sentinel sculpture in 1956, and by the end of that decade he had created five works in the first series. In 1961 he produced four additional Sentinel sculptures, all of which are characterized by flat planes of highly burnished stainless steel. With these works Smith stripped away the volumetric qualities of sculpture and instead presented the figure as an aggressively two-dimensional presence in space. The first of the 1961 series, Two Circle Sentinel is the closest to human scale of those four. The open circle can be read as an eye, and the lower disc evokes the curve of a classic hip-shot pose. Additional elements welded to the main body of the figure capture light and shadow.
992 Kenneth Noland was a leading proponent of Color Field painting. Along with Helen Frankenthaler and Morris Louis, he pioneered a stain painting technique, using first oil, then acrylic-based Magna, on raw, unprimed canvas. This method allowed for a remarkable directness of color. Half Half is one of a series of approximately 200 concentric-circle paintings Noland created between 1956 and 1963. Each painting varies in terms of the number, width, placement, and color of the circles. Working from the center outward, Noland applied paint directly onto raw canvas so that it soaked into the material, achieving an extraordinary degree of chromatic vibrancy. The visual drama of is in part due to the contrast between the expansive painterliness of the outermost circle and the more restrained geometries of the inner circles. The shifting color values add further drama, ranging from cool green to a deep celestial blue, creating an image that seems to bloom and pulsate, expand and contract.
1237 uDiane Arbus was one of the most original and influential American artists of the 20th century. Championed by John Szarkowski, director and curator of the photography department at New Yorks Museum of Modern Art, Arbus was included in the seminal 1967 exhibixadtion , , which introduced the then-new conxadcept of social landscape. Szarkowski exhibited the work of photographers whose aim was not to reform life but to know it. New Documents: Diane Arbus, Lee Friedlander, Garry Winogrand Arbus began her career in fashion with her husband, Allan Arbus, and in the late 1950s she attended a workshop with renowned photographer Lisette Model, who encouraged Arbus not only to master standard photographic technique but also to seek her own subjects. On a Guggenheim Fellowship in the 1960s, Arbus explored American rites, manners, and customs. Likened to a contemporary anthropologist, Arbus took iconic and compelling portraits revealing the hidden side of a wide range of people, from those who epitomize societal norms to those on its extreme edges. The MFAH collection contains nearly 150 examples of Arbuss work and continues to acquire more. To view specific works by Arbus in the collection, contact the museums for an appointment.
1304 Severin Roesens exuberant Victorian Bouquet showcases a profusion of brightly colored flowers and luscious ripe fruits, along with a thin-stemmed glass of sparkling wine, all resting on a dark marble ledge. This portrayal of overflowing abundance provides a feast for all of the senses and celebrates mid-19th-century Americas wealth and good fortune, the result of urbanization and industrialization. Victorian Bouquet Roesen began his career as a porcelain painter in his native Germany. Because 19th-century German porcelain often displayed floral designs, that experience provided a good foundation for still-life painting. He may also have benefited from early exposure to 17th- and 18th-century Dutch paintings of fruit and flowers, as well as from the 19th-century works that revived the still-life tradition. In the late 1840s, Roesen immigrated to the United States, where he painted u. The opulent arrangement of morning glories, roses, irises, tulips, and other flowers, surrounded by fruits such as blackberries, apricots, and strawberries, exemplifies Roesens crisp and luxuriant style. The artist greatly popularized still-life painting-a genre that did not develop into a substantial tradition in the United States until the 1850s and 1860s-and influenced American artists for generations.
894 By 1949 Mark Rothko had arrived at his signature Abstract style. Rothko used layers of thinned paint, soaked into the canvas, to create nuances of tone that gradually emerged as ethereal, floating rectangles of color. In contrast to the Action Painters, he worked to eliminate the gestural line, creating instead vast areas of color to envelop the viewer. Rothko viewed color as a means to express emotions, a medium through which paint and canvas could be transformed into the sublime. In this painting, the close hues of the dark colors are punctuated by the vibrant drama of the red band on top. The subtle shifts of color between the lower two rectangular forms and the dark ground create a quiet luminosity that is both majestic and tragic. The shimmering and flickering light, along with the pulsating colors that alternately project and recede, offer an impression of continual movement.
1058 Number 6 u belongs to Jackson Pollocks first triumphant period of dripped-and-poured paintings. Taking the canvas off the easel and laying it on the floor of his studio so that he could work from all four sides, Pollock dripped, poured, and flung enamel paint on the surface, eliminating brushes and literally drawing with the liquid medium, Revolutionary not only for their technique, these paintings redefined representations of space and the subject of art. Pollocks drip paintings introduced a sense of all-overness, a lack of compositional focus where any one part of the canvas is just as important or central as any other. The energetic web of color and line the concrete notation of the act of painting became the artists subject. This active, physical style of painting is now known as Abstract Expressionism, or alternatively, Action Painting. The Abstract Expressionists were a loosely formed group of artists who came of age in post-World War II New York and were concerned with rendering emotive or psychological subject matter in abstract form.
868 Ella y El is a significant example of the work of Celia Alvxe1rez Muxf1oz in the early 1990s, offering an essay on coming of age and the rites of passage marking such events. Muxf1oz began the piece by creating altar-like arrangements of clothing and artifacts, which she lit and photographed. As the titles printed beneath each image suggest, the panels are divided along gender lines. The ella panel features a little girls red dress, surrounded by romantic charms and images of the Sacred Heart; el features a boys christening gown in front of a sun god and surrounded by knives and Day of the Dead skeletons. The cabinet doors open to reveal additional text and a collection of objects that complement and reinforce the front panel imagery. Muxf1oz created the piece to honor the marriage of her friends; as such, Ella y El celebrates the union of male and female.
943 Maria and Julian Martinez were famous and innovative potters of the Southwest. Their beautifully rounded Black-on-Black Jar features the undulating bodies of avanyu, a mythical water serpent. Both Maria and her husband, Julian, were born in the pueblo of San Ildefonso in New Mexico. A highly regarded center for Southwest American pottery, San Ildefonso is known for its painted figures and contrasting matte-on-polished surfaces. Maria molded pots, and Julian painted the decorations. Working with archaeologists studying ancient pottery, the Martinezes were inspired to revive and revitalize traditional motifs. Julian developed a clay-based paint that remains matte (flat) when fired in a kiln, and as a result he was able to re-create the technique known as black-on-black pottery. The contrast of highly polished and flat surfaces gives this pottery dramatic impact. Julian rarely repeated decorative motifs except for his famous avanyu.
1188 Essentially self-taught, Jasper Johns is one of the artists credited with making recognizable imagery acceptable as subject matter in American painting after the dominance of Abstract Impressionism. Cicada uThroughout his career, Johns has worked through many cycles of imagery, eschewing a linear progression in favor of reexamining motifs. This watercolor revisits three of the artists paintings, all titled , and all created by Johns during his crosshatch period. From 1972 to 1982, he worked in a linear style that he derived from a car decorated with clusters of non-intersecting parallel lines. This Cicada watercolor is the only known instance of Johns combining a finished drawing that reexamines an image he originally executed in oil with notebook-like drawings normally created as a private activity and not meant for public display. Sketches of the cicada insect--the namesake of these works and a symbol of metamorphosis--appear at the bottom of the drawing along with other symbols of regeneration. In addition, this work is historically important because it marks the first time Johns explored the Tantric imagery that would soon become a significant component of his work.
1168 uGeorge Nakashima was one of Americas most influential first-generation furnituremakers and woodworkers. His synthesis of architectural elements and historical styles, and his respect for the inherent beauty of wood, transformed the way studio furniture was made from the 1940s to the 1970s and marked his pieces as important signifiers of grace, beauty, and integrity in the field, In 1960, Nakashima returned to his architectural roots with the Conoid series. Named after his Conoid Studio, built in 1957, the new furniture designs synthesized architectural elements with organic forms. Wood choices, always important to Nakashima, became even more paramount. Many designs in the Conoid series also incorporated cantilever technology, a sign that although Nakashima was not a part of the new Modernism of the mid-century, he was still very much aware of progress in architecture and design. This table dates from the first year of Nakashimas Conoid udesigns. Called a special coffee table on its bill of sale, it cost 140. The tables top-free-form and highly figured-exemplifies the richness of expression and organic nature of form indicative of the best Nakashima.
745 Vernon Fisher is the most prominent artist to bring a Postmodernist sensibility to Texas art. He explores narrative forms using images and text with a remarkable sense of poetry and an endless appetite for formal experimentation. Movements among the Dead is from a series of blackboard paintings that combine found and trompe loeil (fool-the-eye) imagery. Fisher is drawn to the blackboard, a familiar classroom tool, because of its ability to both record and erase quick notations and doodles. For Fisher, the blackboard represents the instability of meaning; it functions as a repository for conflicting and overlapping memories, emotions, and recollections. Fisher visualizes these thought processes by replicating the chalky erasure residue.
93 uTo view specific works by Klein in the collection, contact the museums , for an appointment.
887 Among the most celebrated of the Abstract Expressionist painters in the 1950s and early 1960s, Philip Guston bracketed his career with paintings devoted to the figure. In the 1940s, he painted scenes of battling figures to reflect the horrors of World War II. Late in life, Guston returned to these images, as demonstrated in this eloquent self-portrait, which can be understood as a meditation on mortality and memory. Dominating the composition is the figure of the artist, shown lying in bed. Behind him is a horse, which can be understood as a literal nightmare. uOn the left are scattered cigarettes and alcohol bottles, reminders of the bad habits Guston was forced to abandon as his health failed. The trash-can lid, which stands like a shield in the center of the composition, and the sparring clubs and fists suggest ongoing battles that populate the artists dreams, and psyche.
1332 In Haystack , the rhythmic swirls of paint and lyrical movement of the workers make farm life appear pastoral. The theme-man working in harmony with nature, and the landscape as a source of bounty and sustenance-presents an ideal view of the hardships that farmers endured during the Great Depression of the 1930s. Haystack Referred to as a Regionalist, Thomas Hart Benton believed that the subjects of American artists should come from the nations heartland. After initially absorbing the lessons of Modernism and embracing an abstract, vivid style, Benton turned in the 1920s to developing what he considered an authentic American art, an art that was socially responsible and never aesthetically hermetic. A solid technician in the studio, Benton pioneered a painterly technique of applying pigment with egg yolk and water, and then overlaying the surface with transparent glazes. The rich tones and sensuous surfaces of his paintings are the result of this technique and of his heavily managed brushwork, in which he picked details out of the wet surface of the paint. In , the spiraling motion implicit in the hay coiled on the central pole is echoed throughout the painting, where content and artistic process meld seamlessly as Benton weaves together sky, earth, and farmer into one holistic vision of rural life in Missouri.
665 This spectacular window is a unified forest scene spanning three panels. Like a living landscape, during the course of a day the scene changes in appearance, responding to the light surrounding it. A Wooded Landscape is far more complex than most stained-glass windows, which are pieced together in a process similar to solving a jigsaw puzzle. Instead, by layering different textures, thicknesses, and colors of glass on top of each other within the window-just as an artist might layer paint on a canvas-Louis Comfort Tiffany created subtle color combinations that change with variations in light. During his lifetime, it was said that Tiffany painted with glass.
881 Throughout his career, James Surls has explored the dynamic balance between life and death, creation and destruction. Surls spent many years of his life in East Texas, and he drew inspiration from the landscape of the Piney Woods that surrounded his studio in Splendora, north of Houston. I Am Building with the Axe, the Knife, and the Needles Eye The 13-foot-tall u is constructed out of a variety of wood that Surls was able to gather in the forests around his studio. The combination of these found elements (such as the inverted tree trunk that forms the figures body) and the more finely worked tools emphasizes Surls interest in the dynamics between nature and culture. The twisting forms that define the head and feet evoke the physical powers of a tornado and the frenetic energy of the artist as creator. Ultimately, the sculpture is a self-portrait of the artist at work.
1239 At age 88, when most artists would be well into retirement, Beatrice Wood embarked on a new body of work aesthetically different from her earlier ceramics. Critically lauded as innovative and expressive, the new work almost eclipsed her past objects. The signature pots from this period are a series of complex, often large-scale chalices. Assembled from thrown and hand-built forms, the chalices are totemic, sculptural compositions that demonstrate true harmony between form and glaze. Woods interest in ceramics was initially stirred by the purchase of six Dutch lusterware plates in 1933. Eager for a matching teapot, she enrolled in a ceramics class. After establishing her own studio, Wood created forms that were the result of free exploration, with experimental glazes. For the next 40 years, she made thrown and hand-built vessels and figures in a range of colors and textures. At once vivid and subtle, her glazes had depth and tonal richness and seemed to be molded with light. This spectrum was achieved through her all-over, in-glaze luster that, when fired, caused metallic salts to rise to the surface, a complex process almost impossible to control. Woods metallic sheens were unlike any glaze being used by modern potters.
998 uRichard DeVore works in porcelain and stoneware and is known for his organically shaped abstract forms that are at once powerful and fragile. In both form and glaze, his works boldly demonstrate a command of material that has been honed by years of experimentation. Since early in his career, DeVores palette has consisted of flesh tones, ranging from blush to bone. The surfaces of his vessels often feature a delicate craquelure pattern that is created by painstakingly layering coats of glaze. Because of the varied techniques he uses to administer the glazes, DeVores pieces unfold in layers as they are continually explored, This vessels undulating rim and graceful curves are reminiscent of Constantin Brancusis work as well as the marble sculpture of ancient Italy and Greece. During this early period, DeVore focused on the torso form. The anthropomorphic lines of this vessel clearly delineate the human anatomy and allow for a greater sense of intimacy between the viewer and the vessel.
1227 John Biggers came to Houston in 1949 to establish an art department for Texas Southern University. With his presentation of The Cradle at the annual Houston Artists Exhibition at the MFAH the following year, he became one of the leading figures of Houstons growing art scene. The Cradle Perhaps more than any artist of his generation, Biggers had a profound influence on shaping the history and identity of Houston as he steadily gained national recognition and acclaim. Over a career spanning more than five decades, he created a body of paintings, drawings, prints, and sculpture that is without parallel. His early paintings charted African American folkways and history. Following a UNESCO-sponsored trip to Ghana, Togo, and the Republic of Benin in 1957, he created groundbreaking murals that introduced an Africa unfamiliar to most Americans. In the 1970s and 1980s, his compositions achieved a remarkable synthesis of personal experience and ancestral memory. is typical of the compassionate vision Biggers brought to his early work, expressing his sympathy for the downtrodden and poor. He returned to the image of the mother and child many times, always celebrating the love and strength of women in all walks of life.

http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson
100
13 BEATRICE WOOD
18 Gordon Matta-Clark
16 ROBERT DUNCANSON
18 FREDERIC REMINGTON
11 FRANZ KLINE
18 FREDERIC REMINGTON
12 JASPER JOHNS
17 JOHN GEORGE BROWN
21 WILLIAM MERRITT CHASE
14 WILLIAM MORRIS
30 MARIA MARTINEZ;JULIAN MARTINEZ
14 Joanna Maxwell
12 JOHN SMIBERT
11 DAVID SMITH
15 JACKSON POLLOCK
14 SEVERIN ROESEN
12 ROBERT FRANK
21 TRENTON DOYLE HANCOCK
15 RICHARD MISRACH
15 HERTER BROTHERS
11 ADRIAN SAXE
38 BENJAMIN HENRY LATROBE;GEORGE BRIDPORT
14 JACOB LAWRENCE
18 THOMAS HART BENTON
13 EDWARD WESTON
14 GEORGE BELLOWS
13 HARRY BERTOIA
14 WENDELL CASTLE
4 ZUNI
14 WENDELL CASTLE
16 PAUL OUTERBRIDGE
13 TIFFANY & CO.
8 Kwakiutl
11 JAMES DRAKE
19 JOHN SINGER SARGENT
12 FORREST BESS
14 MELISSA MILLER
11 PAUL STRAND
15 ADOLPH GOTTLIEB
13 VERNON FISHER
21 JOHN SINGLETON COPLEY
13 NAM JUNE PAIK
33 DOROTHY ANTOINETTE (TONI) LASELLE
14 RICHARD DEVORE
18 FREDERIC REMINGTON
12 TOOTS ZYNSKY
12 JOHN BIGGERS
21 BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS
9 EVA HESSE
14 GEORGE BELLOWS
21 BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS
13 ELIE NADELMAN
17 RICHARD T. NOTKIN
23 FREDERICK CARL FRIESEKE
17 ROBERT MOTHERWELL
12 Philadelphia
12 JASPER JOHNS
13 ESTHER PARADA
15 JOHN BALDESSARI
11 JAMES SURLS
33 CHARLES RICHARD MEADE;HENRY MEADE
70 Attributed to POTTIER and STYMUS;MARQUETRY ATTRIBUTED TO JOSEPH CREMER
15 GEORGIA OKEEFFE
11 ERIC FISCHL
15 W. EUGENE SMITH
12 STUART DAVIS
13 JAMES TURRELL
21 FREDERIC EDWIN CHURCH
16 GEORGE NAKASHIMA
11 Ansel Adams
13 PETER VOULKOS
13 WILLIAM KLEIN
18 FREDERIC REMINGTON
12 DOROTHY HOOD
18 FREDERIC REMINGTON
14 MEQUITTA AHUJA
8 JIM LOVE
14 NICHOLAS NIXON
13 JAMES TURRELL
13 TIFFANY & CO.
12 JASPER JOHNS
12 ELSIE DRIGGS
12 LEE BONTECOU
16 ALBERT BIERSTADT
15 EDWARD STEICHEN
13 CINDY SHERMAN
16 Catherine Wagner
10 VICKI MEEK
9 ED RUSCHA
18 E. MARTIN HENNINGS
13 ARSHILE GORKY
11 MARK ROTHKO
11 DONALD JUDD
53 LOUIS COMFORT TIFFANY;Manufactured by TIFFANY STUDIOS
8 AMERICAN
21 CHARLES WILLSON PEALE
14 MORGAN RUSSELL
11 DAVID BATES
21 EASTERN MASSACHUSETTS
19 Havel Ruck Projects

http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfBirth
100
11 1938 - 2005
11 1844 - 1926
11 1927 - 2005
11 1882 - 1925
9 est. 1837
9 born 1951
11 1874 - 1939
11 1913 - 1980
11 1933 - 2006
11 1801 - 1848
11 1924 - 2010
11 1830 - 1902
11 1877 - 1943
9 born 1943
11 1831 - 1913
9 born 1943
9 born 1931
11 1849 - 1916
11 1903 - 1970
11 1861 - 1909
11 1911 - 2006
23 1764 - 1820;1783 - 1819
11 1819 - 1904
11 1898 - 1992
11 1879 - 1973
11 1893 - 1998
9 est. 1831
11 1904 - 1948
11 1826 - 1900
11 1738 - 1815
11 1928 - 1994
11 1886 - 1958
11 1818 - 1867
9 born 1932
11 1849 - 1916
17 c. 1815 - c. 1872
11 1856 - 1924
11 1898 - 1976
11 1945 - 1978
11 1794 - 1804
11 1882 - 1925
11 1848 - 1933
9 born 1930
11 1688 - 1751
9 born 1943
11 1885 - 1940
11 1861 - 1909
23 1848 - 1933;1902 - 1932
11 1848 - 1919
9 born 1952
11 1940 - 2006
11 1890 - 1973
11 1896 - 1958
11 1905 - 1990
11 1861 - 1909
4 1924
23 1826 - 1858;1823 - 1865
9 born 1947
11 1922 - 1993
11 1887 - 1986
9 born 1951
11 1861 - 1909
9 born 1932
11 1901 - 2002
11 1805 - 1873
9 born 1976
11 1917 - 2000
11 1869 - 1904
11 1906 - 1978
11 1906 - 1965
11 1894 - 1938
11 1882 - 1946
9 born 1944
11 1924 - 2001
11 1936 - 1970
9 born 1954
9 born 1937
9 born 1949
11 1915 - 1991
11 1887 - 1986
11 1911 - 1977
11 1782 - 1847
9 born 1943
11 1890 - 1976
9 born 1936
11 1780 - 1849
9 born 1951
33 active c. 1859 - 1910;1811 - 1878
11 1906 - 1965
11 1889 - 1975
9 born 1959
11 1741 - 1827
9 born 1948
11 1912 - 1956
11 1946 - 2009
9 born 1931
11 1928 - 1987
11 1915 - 1978
9 born 1953
11 1919 - 2000

http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfDeath
100
4 1970
7 c. 1905
9 1760-1800
7 c. 1924
4 1982
7 c. 1914
4 1988
10 c. 1905-12
7 1730-60
4 1997
10 c. 1903-04
19 1983, edition of 35
4 1989
16 Mid-19th century
4 1905
4 1985
7 2007-08
4 1922
4 1793
4 1969
4 1884
4 1850
4 1972
4 1955
4 1925
4 1855
4 1948
10 c. 1892-93
4 1855
4 1888
4 1903
10 c. 1850-55
7 1867-74
4 1981
7 1740-90
4 1984
4 1975
4 1985
4 1992
10 c. 1782-85
7 c. 1862
4 1979
4 2002
9 1794-1810
4 1950
4 1975
4 1968
7 c. 1905
9 1785-1815
4 1959
4 2008
7 1934-43
4 1913
4 1979
9 1780-1800
4 1847
4 1963
9 1760-1800
4 1878
7 c. 1923
7 1969-71
4 1916
4 1862
4 1958
9 1760-1800
7 c. 1905
4 1938
10 c. 1830-40
4 1961
7 1987-88
10 c. 1876-79
4 1960
4 1970
32 1895 (this version cast in 1906)
10 c. 1918-24
7 c. 1770
4 1914
4 1945
4 1992
4 1962
4 1914
4 1938
4 1973
4 1995
4 1986
7 c. 1895
4 1917
4 1808
4 1746
7 1910-40
4 1851
18 1954, printed 1982
4 2006
4 1903
4 1990
4 1961
4 1983
7 c. 1900
4 1950
7 1972-79

http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance
100
87 Museum purchase with funds provided by the Caroline Wiess Law Accessions Endowment Fund
51 The Hogg Brothers Collection, gift of Miss Ima Hogg
45 Gift of the Barrett Collection, Dallas, Texas
43 The Allan Chasanoff Photographic Collection
41 Gift of Ehrich Newhouse Gallery, New York
33 Gift of Marian Thompson Deininger
249 Gift of Nona and Richard Barrett, Bettie Cartwright and Colin Kennedy, Isabel B. Wilson, The Brown Foundation, Inc., Melissa and Albert Joseph Grobmyer IV, Puffer-Sweiven, L.P., Carol Ballard, Janet and Paul Hobby, David Durham, and Edwin A. Eubanks
96 Gift of the Karen and Eric Pulaski Philanthropic Fund of the Houston Jewish Community Foundation
67 25th Annual Houston Artists Exhibition, museum purchase prize, 1950
28 Museum purchase, by exchange
29 Gift of the Morgan Foundation
116 The Peter Blum Edition Archive, 1980-1994; Museum purchase with funds provided; by the Alice Pratt Brown Museum Fund
48 The Bayou Bend Collection; Gift of Miss Ima Hogg
39 Gift of Isabel B. and Wallace S. Wilson
25 Gift of Frank J. Hevrdejs
77 Museum purchase with funds provided by the Agnes Cullen Arnold Endowment Fund
116 Museum purchase with funds provided by the Long Endowment for American Art and the Sarah Campbell Blaffer Foundation
48 The Bayou Bend Collection; Gift of Miss Ima Hogg
26 Gift of D. and J. de Menil
51 The Hogg Brothers Collection, gift of Miss Ima Hogg
19 Gift of Duke Energy
19 Gift of Duke Energy
41 Gift of the Caroline Wiess Law Foundation
88 Museum purchase with funds provided by the; Caroline Wiess Law Accessions Endowment Fund
78 Museum purchase with funds provided; by the Agnes Cullen Arnold Endowment Fund
88 Museum purchase with funds provided by the; Caroline Wiess Law Accessions Endowment Fund
78 Museum purchase with funds provided by; the Agnes Cullen Arnold Endowment Fund
15 Museum purchase
60 Gift of The Friends of Jim Love in honor of Isabel B. Wilson
88 The Bayou Bend Collection; Gift of Alice C. Simkins in memory of Alice Nicholson Hanszen
15 Museum purchase
26 Gift of Caroline Wiess Law
21 Gift of Miss Ima Hogg
67 Gift of Isabel B. Wilson in memory of her mother, Alice Pratt Brown
79 Wintermann Collection of American Art; Gift of Mr. and Mrs. David R. Wintermann
48 The Bayou Bend Collection; Gift of Miss Ima Hogg
130 Gift of the Charles Engelhard Foundation in honor of Linda L. Cathcart, Director of the Contemporary Arts Museum from 1979 to 1987
15 Museum purchase
58 Museum commission, gift of Isabel B. and Wallace S. Wilson
73 Museum purchase with funds provided; by the Alice Pratt Brown Museum Fund
51 The Hogg Brothers Collection, gift of Miss Ima Hogg
1001 Gift of the family of Joseph S. Cullinan, and Mr. and Mrs. David R. Wintermann, by exchange, with additional gifts from Mr. and Mrs. Harry C. Wiess; Mrs. E. L. Perry; Mr. and Mrs. John H. Blaffer in memory of his father, Robert Lee Blaffer; Edith A. and Percy S. Straus; Grand Central Art Galleries; Miss Ima Hogg; General and Mrs. Maurice Hirsch; the Allied Arts Association; Mr. and Mrs. Charles L. Bybee; Nan Greacen Faure; Helen M. Turner; Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Levine; the Axson Club, Houston; William Best; Sarah Campbell Blaffer; Mrs. Willimina Borland; Mrs. Evan W. Burris; the Houston Art League through the bequest of George M. Dickson; Miss Katherine S. Dreier; George Wharton Edwards; Parker Edwards; Mrs. William Stamps Farish; the Houston Friends of Art; Angela MacDonnell; Mrs. Justine Franklin McGuire; the Smithsonian Institution; Harmand Teplow; the University Club of Houston; Robert C. Vose, in memory of Seth M. Vose; Nelson Waggener; Emile Walters; and Irene Weir, all by exchange
90 Museum purchase with funds provided by the; Mary Kathryn Lynch Kurtz Charitable Lead Trust
49 The Bayou Bend Collection; Gift of Miss Ima Hogg;
40 Gift of Garth Clark and Mark Del Vecchio
85 Museum purchase with funds provided by the Brown Foundation Accessions Endowment Fund
29 Bequest of Caroline Wiess Law
74 Garth Clark and Mark Del Vecchio Collection; Gift of the Morgan Foundation
457 Gift of Chris Urbanczyk, with matching funds provided by Chevron, with additional gifts from George and Mary Hawkins; Jane Millett Jackson; Marc and Kathleen Bxe9xefque; Leslie and Jack S. Blanton, Jr.; Karol Kreymer and Robert Card, M.D.; Lester Marks; Russell and Diana Hawkins; Drs. Jeffrey and Linda Jackson; Karen, Gene, and Katherine Oshman; Dan Tidwell and Jamie Mize; an anonymous donor in honor of Scott and Judy Nyquist; and friends of the artists
72 Museum purchase with funds provided; by Dr. and Mrs. John R. Kelsey, Jr.
58 Gift of AT&T New Art/New Visions and the Wilder Foundation
15 Museum purchase
48 The Bayou Bend Collection; Gift of Miss Ima Hogg
48 The Bayou Bend Collection; Gift of Miss Ima Hogg
51 The Hogg Brothers Collection, gift of Miss Ima Hogg
34 Gift of Mr. and Mrs. W. D. Hawkins
69 Gift of Vinson & Elkins L.L.P. in honor of the firms 75th anniversary
48 The Bayou Bend Collection; Gift of Miss Ima Hogg
52 Gift of Mr. and Mrs. John W. Mecom, Jr., by exchange
78 Museum purchase with funds provided by; the Agnes Cullen Arnold Endowment Fund
68 The Target Collection of American Photography; Gift of Target Stores
40 Gift of Garth Clark and Mark Del Vecchio
48 The Bayou Bend Collection; Gift of Miss Ima Hogg
34 Gift of Anaruth and Aron S. Gordon
48 The Bayou Bend Collection; Gift of Miss Ima Hogg
41 Gift of the John R. Eckel, Jr. Foundation
73 Museum purchase with funds provided; by the Alice Pratt Brown Museum Fund
51 Gift of the Ranger Fund, National Academy of Design
48 The Bayou Bend Collection, gift of Miss Ima Hogg
86 Museum purchase with funds provided by the; Brown Foundation Accessions Endowment Fund
78 Museum purchase with funds provided by; the Agnes Cullen Arnold Endowment Fund
72 Gift of the Susan Vaughan Foundation; in memory of Susan Clayton McAshan
78 Museum purchase with funds provided by; the Agnes Cullen Arnold Endowment Fund
48 The Bayou Bend Collection; Gift of Miss Ima Hogg
108 Gift of Nina and Michael Zilkha in honor of Fayez Sarofim on the occasion of their tenth wedding anniversary
43 The Allan Chasanoff Photographic Collection
34 Gift of Mr. and Mrs. Meredith Long
88 Museum purchase with funds provided by the; Caroline Wiess Law Accessions Endowment Fund
51 The Hogg Brothers Collection, gift of Miss Ima Hogg
41 Gift of the John R. Eckel, Jr. Foundation
46 Gift of the Frank Freed Memorial Painting Fund
86 Gift of Cecily E. Horton in honor of the; twenty-fifth anniversary of the Core Program
91 Museum purchase with funds provided by the; 2007 Latin American Experience Gala and Auction
40 Gift of Garth Clark and Mark Del Vecchio
60 Museum purchase with funds provided by the Museum Collectors
81 The Leatrice S. and Melvin B. Eagle Collection; Gift of Leatrice and Melvin Eagle
31 Gift of Mrs. James W. Glanville
138 Gift of the Caroline Wiess Law Foundation, with additional funds provided by the African American Art Advisory Association and Exxon/Mobil
48 The Bayou Bend Collection; Gift of Miss Ima Hogg
43 The Allan Chasanoff Photographic Colleciton
62 Gift of Mr. and Mrs. B. W. Crain in honor of E. L. Crain, M.D.
116 Museum purchase with funds provided by the Brown Foundation Accessions Endowment Fund in memory of Alice Pratt Brown
15 Museum purchase
76 Gift of Mr. and Mrs. Ralph OConnor; in honor of Mr. and Mrs. George R. Brown
78 Museum purchase with funds provided by; the Agnes Cullen Arnold Endowment Fund
34 Gift of The Brown Foundation, Inc.
21 Gift of Miss Ima Hogg
68 The Target Collection of American Photography, gift of Target Stores
86 Museum purchase with additional funds; provided by the National Endowment for the Arts
40 Gift of the estate of Caroline Wiess Law

http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/extent
100
18 18 x 20 3/4 inches
15 76 x 106 inches
22 14 1/4 x 18 5/8 inches
15 30 x 36  inches
22 27 1/4 x 40 1/8 inches
14 40 x 30 inches
14 48 x 36 inches
14 44 x 49 inches
21 8 1/8 x 15 5/8 inches
15 96 x 144 inches
22 19 x 13 x 7 3/8 inches
31 36 1/2 x 20 3/4 x 20 7/8 inches
22 22 3/8 x 21 1/2 inches
18 83 x 92 x 9 inches
18 27 1/8 x 40 inches
19 36 x 30 3/16 inches
31 31 3/4 x 10 1/4 x 11 7/8 inches
22 58 1/8 x 38 1/8 inches
15 108 x 90 inches
24 17 1/16 x 21 3/16 inches
14 80 x 80 inches
14 13 x 13 inches
15 15 x 19  inches
13 12 x 7 inches
15 17  x 24 inches
16 27  x 40  inches
19 11 x 21 x 12 inches
22 120 x 240 x 120 inches
86 (A) 24 15/16 x 17 15/16 inches; (B) 24 7/8 x 17 7/8 inches; (C) 24 7/8 x 17 7/8 inches
20 69 x 110 x 30 inches
20 87 x 41  x 23 inches
23 40 1/2 x 12 x 12 inches
31 29 1/2 x 49 7/8 x 22 1/2 inches
22 32 3/8 x 42 3/8 inches
14 90 x 72 inches
23 40 1/16 x 29 3/4 inches
22 27 1/8 x 45 1/4 inches
19 44 4/16 x 54 inches
14 44 x 38 inches
31 14 1/4 x 11 3/4 x 10 1/8 inches
18 2 x 11 x 13 inches
19 30 x 46 7/16 inches
58 Image: 9 x 13 7/16 inches; Sheet: 10 15/16 x 13 7/8 inches
27 37 3/8 x 17 x 18 1/4 inches
31 28 5/8 x 15 1/2 x 13 1/2 inches
14 76 x 48 inches
26 8 5/8 x 14 3/8 x 10 inches
51 Image: 7 11/16 x 9 5/8 inches; Sheet: 8 x 10 inches
27 34 1/2 x 39 1/4 x 22 inches
30 42 3/8 x 35 3/4 x 3 3/8 inches
19 67 x 87 x 14 inches
17 8 x 5 3/16 inches
14 75 x 50 inches
23 132 x 246 x 1416 inches
31 41 3/8 x 37 1/2 x 19 1/2 inches
27 6 15/16 x 5 1/16 x 8 inches
66 Image: 12 15/16 x 9 9/16 inches; Sheet: 15 13/16 x 11 15/16 inches
33 Image/Sheet: 9 7/8 x 6 5/8 inches
22 36 1/8 x 27 1/8 inches
60 Stone: 18 3/4 x 23 3/4 inches; Sheet: 20 1/4 x 25 3/4 inches
15 15  x 7  inches
20 78 x 163 3/16 inches
20 13  x 77 x 30 inches
23 23 1/16 x 30 1/8 inches
19 68 x 40 x 22 inches
14 25 x 30 inches
14 15 x 12 inches
20 Each: 64 x 72 inches
21 118 x 118 x 41 inches
18 2  x 9 x 9  inches
31 26 5/8 x 29 5/8 x 10 3/4 inches
21 14 1/8 x 6 x 6 inches
15 120 x 96 inches
24 81 3/16 x 61 3/16 inches
18 27 x 29 5/8 inches
60 Plate: 15 7/8 x 11 3/8 inches; Sheet: 19 3/4 x 15 3/8 inches
21 15  x 53  x 17 inches
27 3/4 x 2 7/16 x 3 3/8 inches
30 7 1/8 x 1 9/16 x 5 3/16 inches
29 21 1/2 x 8 3/8 x 8 3/8 inches
14 10 x 12 inches
19 66 x 20 x 33 inches
20 4 3/4 x 3 5/8 inches
20 7 5/8 x 9 1/2 inches
32 86 1/2 x 131 9/16 x 1 3/4 inches
27 34 1/2 x 20 x 20 1/2 inches
30 31 3/4 x 54 1/8 x 3 7/8 inches
314 Untitled (Boy with Dog) 21 13/16 x 16 13/16 inches; Untitled (Woman with Child Watching) 17 9/16 x 11 3/16 inches; Untitled (Three Men Standing) 22 11/16 x 11 5/16 inches; Untitled (Landscape) 22 7/16 x 34 11/16 inches; Untitled (Man Walking) 12 9/16 x 9 5/8 inches; Untitled (Man Dressing) 23 5/16 x 19 1/2 inches
19 39 x 22 x 19 inches
27 94 5/8 x 40 x 21 3/8 inches
23 23 5/16 x 19 1/4 inches
19 68 x 72 x 30 inches
19 39 x 21 x 24 inches
20 106 x 69 x 28 inches
20 13 x 18 13/16 inches
22 27 1/4 x 40 1/8 inches
22 27 7/8 x 39 3/4 inches
14 24 x 30 inches
18 69 x 78 1/2 inches
22 45  x 32  x 31  inches

http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/Document|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink
100
45 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/trespass-4416/
48 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/pair-side-chairs/
61 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/view-asheville-north-carolina/
51 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/conoid-coffee-table/
41 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/ella-y-el/
52 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/portrait-john-b-gest/
45 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/walking-chalk/
41 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/tea-table/
40 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/herd-boy/
47 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/american-blonde/
52 http://www.mfah.org/art/100-highlights/untitled-11a/
57 http://www.mfah.org/art/100-highlights/peaceable-kingdom/
64 http://www.mfah.org/art/100-highlights/portrait-florence-pierce/
47 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/rock-reef-maine/
51 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/sea-lion-feast-bowl/
43 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/abstraction/
47 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/acquamare-chaos/
60 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/remington-drawing-black-bean/
60 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/giant-soft-fan-ghost-version/
43 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/red-barge-1/
58 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/drake-juarezel-paso-boxcar/
86 http://www.mfah.org/art/100-highlights/mrs-joshua-montgomery-sears-sarah-choate-sears/
36 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/leda/
54 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/untitled-film-still-52/
77 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/surls-i-am-building-axe-knife-and-needles-eye/
61 http://www.mfah.org/art/100-highlights/indians-spear-fishing/
52 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/double-fibula-brooch/
49 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/trees-long-island/
55 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/cube-skull-teapot-var26/
45 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/bronco-buster/
75 http://www.mfah.org/art/100-highlights/damascus-gate-stretch-variation-iii/
53 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/children-garden-nurse/
54 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/butterfly-napkin-clips/
51 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/untitled-vase-stack/
37 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/flask/
66 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/curling-scottish-game-central-park/
67 http://www.mfah.org/art/100-highlights/high-chest-drawers-B-69-348/
50 http://www.mfah.org/art/100-highlights/easy-chair/
42 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/slab-table/
84 http://www.mfah.org/art/100-highlights/grey-lines-with-black-blue-and-yello-okeeffe/
50 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/weston-armco-steel/
52 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/movements-among-dead/
53 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/torque-22-d-neckpiece/
48 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/armchair-B-91-51/
55 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/portrait-mary-pemberton/
82 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/make-blind-man-murder-things-hes-seen-happiness-ov/
41 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/synchromy/
43 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/noland-half/
47 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/glasco-untitled/
49 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/sor-aqua-venetian/
57 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/portrait-samuel-pemberton/
55 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/johns-cicada-watercolor/
57 http://www.mfah.org/art/100-highlights/gloucester-harbor/
44 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/tambour-desk/
65 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/cassatt-under-horse-chestnut-tree/
47 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/laselle-puritan/
45 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/past-recovery/
43 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/brown-angel/
40 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/cotopaxi/
69 http://www.mfah.org/art/100-highlights/wooded-landscape-three-panels/
44 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/bureau-table/
40 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/number-6/
57 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/smith-two-circle-sentinel/
54 http://www.mfah.org/art/100-highlights/samuel-houston/
64 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/ruscha-untitled-1-and-untitled-2/
74 http://www.mfah.org/art/100-highlights/advertisement-george-p-ide-company/
38 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/vase-2/
60 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/bates-stringer-sheepsheads-i/
37 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/flood/
44 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/portrait-boy/
49 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/arizona-landscape/
62 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/untitled-series-country-doctor/
62 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/jubilee-ghana-harvest-festival/
55 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/johns-cicada-oil-canvas/
45 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/rhyton-vessel/
37 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/chair/
82 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/south-main-baptist-church-childrens-sunday-school-/
45 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/untitled-judd/
49 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/victorian-bouquet/
60 http://www.mfah.org/art/100-highlights/light-inside-turrell/
48 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/1-super-cry-baby/
47 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/rose-art-memory/
49 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/ceramic-and-fruit/
63 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/mother-and-child-first-portrait/
63 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/prendergast-new-england-village/
55 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/misrach-desert-fire-249/
51 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/untitled-diebenkorn/
59 http://www.mfah.org/art/100-highlights/Self-Portrait-Peale/
60 http://www.mfah.org/art/100-highlights/warhol-self-portrait/
39 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/passing/
41 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/sideboard/
38 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/beacon/
68 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/old-glory-goes-mt-suribachi-iwo-jima/
48 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/arm-organization/
60 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/alexander-mr-friends-revenge/
58 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/high-chest-drawers-B-69-75/
56 http://www.mfah.org/art/100-highlights/year-drowned-dog/
58 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/high-chest-drawers-B-69-43/
70 http://www.mfah.org/art/100-highlights/nighttime-enigma-and-nostalgia/
59 http://www.mfah.org/art/detail/my-father-reading-newspaper/

http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson
100
8 American
8 American
22 American, born Germany
22 American, born Germany
8 American
8 American
8 American
23 American, born Scotland
20 American, born Italy
8 American
8 American
8 American
8 American
8 American
8 American
21 American, born Sweden
8 American
8 American
8 AMERICAN
8 American
8 American
8 American
8 American
8 American
8 American
10 New Mexico
8 American
20 American, born Italy
8 American
8 American
8 American
8 American
8 American
8 American
8 American
8 American
8 American
8 American
8 American
8 American
8 American
8 American
8 American
22 American, born Armenia
8 American
8 American
24 Providence, Rhode Island
8 American
8 American
8 American
8 American
8 American
8 American
8 American
25 American, born Luxembourg
8 American
22 American, born England
8 American
8 American
8 American
8 American
8 American
8 American
8 American
8 American
8 American
23 American, born Scotland
8 American
8 American
19 Dan Havel, American
45 American, born England;American, born England
8 American
8 American
8 American
17 American;American
8 American
21 American, born Poland
8 American
8 American
21 American, born Poland
8 American
20 American, born Korea
8 American
8 American
15 American;French
21 American, born Canada
26 American, born Switzerland
8 American
7 Arizona
21 American, born Canada
8 American
8 American
8 American
8 American
21 American, born Russia
8 American
8 American
8 American
8 American
8 American

http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink
100
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/1a/b9/1ab9ce952dee0ee2ea253656984205a1.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/33/b9/33b97ab110b7e40084919a2f1b48ca8d.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/fb/42/fb42c486713c64740cc1d4c526675888.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/8e/5a/8e5ae58902a36b0d698bf9e9d69db5ff.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/53/81/5381d4c7e17b8628d7e57a581afb5b5f.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/30/2f/302fb262c8cd5aab384fc0b6d2b6f362.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/f0/4e/f04ee2e0b6ad11f7479d99120b62c2ea.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/f2/84/f2846abde7102888b508f8ddc58f69cc.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/80/15/80158a309d10a80c9413aaa02350ea9d.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/db/30/db3065274d538d8539f31ae840d0e2d7.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/7c/70/7c7088e830b1e134ffc427eac4e5f44e.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/72/7c/727c9b61b85b16d432a79031137e3d6b.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/3a/fc/3afceba69cdeaa1482993da351054ad1.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/59/ca/59ca57937c097d3cae67b55ecbb8940b.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/3d/05/3d0547f4cde3a511a3dbff86e8d1853c.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/56/7b/567bd0071f306041c4ca3e54bff27f27.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/66/2d/662d9a50d11bba068d6af9d1ce7278c2.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/b7/70/b770189e438de636ef82db7184b18dbc.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/8b/3b/8b3bd6c941e86e06527cf6cb7ea4a763.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/ff/9f/ff9fea54b1a17b6d105edc84218ac584.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/da/98/da982b89eda15cec032727ac3094519f.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/48/f2/48f28e0de3b34b4d407660956d636540.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/15/73/1573dde897c22610ae31d7368514a8ca.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/c0/c4/c0c4352fff7bac617c0ddb7ba3eb38c8.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/29/fa/29fa852c9971a9a2c9b2a992c5943da2.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/24/dc/24dc6cbb367541242fb036c7db2710f3.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/46/d9/46d9c77db30fea946a53d6e9d787d4b7.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/bd/c4/bdc45267dd4b387dab999dcf9e8d46a6.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/ae/6f/ae6f0b8fc97663dd6938b3e555fc2c7a.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/e3/f4/e3f41b9be7bc164a974bf0ad7f0a4e86.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/0f/95/0f9574c5fdf5336bc5950263496c6f3d.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/16/dd/16ddade85d05ff9be65feba92b728998.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/f3/13/f313c26e74aa58ed0c8ede5f3abd9a2a.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/58/05/580549dfdef50d22aeca16f69948e7b7.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/0a/64/0a643d3587bd568a04b90a0e0f384d48.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/86/85/8685e8a9b6cea3d7e690fb27836ea098.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/f5/a4/f5a441b573dcce12cce78500099ca46b.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/2b/54/2b542bd815e255387435821c80518d6c.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/6b/59/6b59e32b8b2c6a57f0a5076411020b0c.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/97/37/97372b66549f98a9bb0c39fc7ecc0e8d.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/b5/71/b571565212d9f1f7db760ccc16135e7b.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/1f/5f/1f5fdaa4c67462fa873b523906f599e4.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/c4/60/c460d54d2507d263791b417da80aad36.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/54/41/5441c4a3d4d64420d07eefd61718d9eb.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/25/0e/250eac923eb9a9fb2fe03ce2729d40f2.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/55/46/55463a194ed20b476df5ffd936bb683b.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/c0/b7/c0b7366ebf479f9a0cb1280eb559ecd8.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/d0/6c/d06c4d2e547f232a28b2746463c3812f.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/6b/04/6b043de9063b2a09f4da7ee362c8534f.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/86/68/8668d06f7069566d882509a07f61fed7.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/80/e0/80e0f7c5ea5db575f03df8895995b122.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/63/83/638340a65319d8620a3d5dcf0ec25e9b.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/f9/8d/f98d08f3338330b08626fef3a101d11a.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/ca/5e/ca5e2b98103e4aefa44709568171a704.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/1d/e6/1de6bf11b46cecb844a96eb622a38a1f.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/7e/fb/7efbfc258982782d580b8d7fbf241cf7.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/69/21/692168b1b4917e6d4fe24d5a3f09d474.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/ec/0d/ec0d3c47caf8f7488fd84d5a7c86d5e3.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/80/07/8007ddc1c94689f3101d41ec336fa87b.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/6a/05/6a05bcd15cc19eb8f6986dd18f6a9b0d.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/00/ab/00abd4c0d133e3b359973aa2a6e4c69d.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/ff/6e/ff6e1849a165909946f8bc654ecceddb.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/17/ea/17ea6b97b6fb2baf8021a88a1f5b8f9f.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/b4/22/b4225bfb881fad5636670ad8f0d26030.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/61/dc/61dc2bccef9288068c7b5d314e37fe40.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/4b/a1/4ba14729eb92290446a899ce4ddf2865.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/5a/7b/5a7b347cb47ec0a74434943ed8c4aa61.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/34/98/3498210f88a90a4ed6b8905deefb902a.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/64/d7/64d7aba83ba6f188aacaa1bae11e11f6.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/4e/8c/4e8cae77a77ca987db331979df47bd67.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/c3/16/c3165b9fdcd89c967c107f0ccb59c917.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/91/32/9132c1458e776df32c3392eeaf1ae410.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/d9/6f/d96f284349056f1b09eec30ad445d408.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/01/ee/01ee4b54711eb3cb30650006b2726ff6.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/62/77/627744e3e1c9b8ea67b8d6ce1c962d87.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/6a/af/6aaf09cce71d31a6cb19e7ddace5a098.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/e3/ec/e3ecc8c9429ea8e2841902da7a15879b.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/80/d3/80d3cff2300e710a11db16b382c8279d.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/8b/fd/8bfd5ddafec4ca14f93ba1ccc584fdef.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/3c/3a/3c3a9494f3bad5826e7740bae04da9e5.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/0e/15/0e15d4d1d78d4d5a8103a5e4b3f14a92.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/05/11/05114e3f5df8883a0523de97fa19a08e.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/e0/c0/e0c02f57f63ad1ffbe99907a8fdd9268.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/94/8c/948c96ef0a1c2c12414be6475785d205.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/ef/23/ef23aa3781cc431f3cc049ccafc25539.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/23/03/230358c76f3a78833dc8216285656e42.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/a9/17/a917500a11f5aafb3787b1c793b7e791.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/b1/c2/b1c2064f702ea6f4cc88439c748603e7.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/ee/6f/ee6f683085094a34096cf01525d4b3d6.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/e5/37/e537510de3215396c6c0336b17eab82b.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/1c/bc/1cbc6857a0615cef647b01000cd5b5e0.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/45/98/459821eff32bffa708b3b12f1a045e52.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/af/dd/afdd9c36acf75482b5afe7e1e04c6667.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/01/be/01be5f3b2d8d868e0d8a209e68b8080b.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/80/f8/80f87cc6245259665caf493d549e275c.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/d2/2b/d22bbd4ad45b207dc58abb0f10faeaf7.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/11/7e/117e3d87bbc3ec534d9fabf9e39cdfc0.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/6f/99/6f999a133d8af29e1c586ab741c32aad.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/80/84/8084b7740f58b5f92e2d8c97dcb2d3b5.jpg
79 http://www.mfah.org/site_media/cache/dc/38/dc384b0bc79ad131bae1ecb62a07ab88.jpg

http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/medium
100
20 Gelatin silver print
81 Rosewood, burled ash, maple, eastern white pine, and other woods; gilt and bronze
136 Ash; painted and gilded, composition decoration; with original linen and horsehair foundation; gilded brass tacks; and modern silk cover
10 Lithograph
13 Oil on canvas
13 Oil on canvas
20 Gelatin silver print
21 Cherry wood and gesso
56 Welded steel, epoxy, canvas, fabric, saw blade, and wire
41 Watercolor, graphite, and crayon on paper
13 Oil on canvas
13 Oil on canvas
13 Oil on canvas
9 White oak
20 Gelatin silver print
41 Cherry, other woods, gilt, and upholstery
13 Oil on canvas
20 Gelatin silver print
37 Fused and thermo-formed glass threads
13 Oil on canvas
25 Sterling silver with gilt
87 Gessoed, painted and gilded yellow poplar, oak, maple, and eastern white pine with cane
64 Mahogany, inlay, enameled brass, eastern white pine, and red oak
26 Steel, cast iron, and lead
14 Wood and paint
20 Gelatin silver print
13 Silk on linen
33 Duco and aluminum paint on canvas
7 Ceramic
21 Conte crayon on paper
35 Canvas, wood, and polyurethane foam
36 Carbon print on base of silver paint
31 Drypoint and aquatint in colors
68 Gelatin silver prints and one typewritten sheet, individually framed
13 Oil on canvas
12 Black walnut
38 Oil and beeswax on three canvas panels
20 Gelatin silver print
13 Oil on canvas
35 Oil on paperboard, mounted on panel
13 Daguerreotype
28 Mahogany; eastern white pine
13 Oil on canvas
13 Oil on canvas
47 Gouache, ink, watercolor, and graphite on paper
15 Alkyd on canvas
20 Gelatin silver print
66 American tulipwood, northeast white pine, black walnut, and marble
22 Tempera on gesso panel
13 Oil on canvas
13 Oil on canvas
9 Stoneware
9 Stoneware
3 Oak
15 Sage green clay
13 Oil on canvas
17 Honduran mahogany
31 Oil on canvas, mounted on panel
30 Acrylic screen print on canvas
46 Bronze, green over brown patina, lost-wax cast
13 Painted steel
12 Oil on linen
13 Oil on canvas
13 Oil on canvas
35 Fiberglass with pigment and glitter
26 Oil, blackboard, and chalk
83 Single-channel color video and stereo-sound installation, 10-minute continuous loop
13 Oil on canvas
15 Projected light
13 Oil on canvas
20 Gelatin silver print
13 Oil on canvas
20 Gelatin silver print
17 Chromogenic print
17 Acrylic on canvas
15 Stainless steel
13 Oil on canvas
61 Wood, lacquer, aluminum framework, television monitors, video
20 Gelatin silver print
11 Oil on wood
3 Oak
24 Wood and found materials
17 Acrylic on canvas
67 Mahogany, Atlantic white cedar, southern yellow pine, yellow poplar
11 Blown glass
13 Oil on canvas
27 Palladium print with toning
28 Glass, copper-foil, and lead
67 Gold, silver, bronze, pearls, moonstone, and Madagascar labradorite
13 Oil on canvas
40 Mahogany, brass, chestnut, yellow poplar
13 Oil on canvas
13 Oil on canvas
46 Tempera with oil glaze on linen, on wood panel
37 Acrylic and mixed media on cut canvas
18 Brown ink on paper
33 Oil on canvas mounted on Masonite
17 Chromogenic print
32 Oil on canvas mounted onto panel
13 Oil on canvas

http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title
100
43 Advertisement for the George P. Ide Company
28 Portrait of Samuel Pemberton
24 Movements among the Dead
11 Armco Steel
14 Black on White
23 Juarez/El Paso (Boxcar)
22 Butterfly Napkin Clips
26 A New Year on the Cimarron
46 Cottonwood Trunks, Yosemite Valley, California
32 Children in a Garden (The Nurse)
53 A Different Kind of Order (The Thelonious Monk Story)
21 Torque 22-D Neckpiece
13 Trespass 4416
21 High Chest of Drawers
107 Joey Brandon with his Parents, Zena and Everett Cloy, Boston, Oct., 1987 , from the series People with AIDS
10 Slab Table
50 Self-Portrait with Angelica and Portrait of Rachel
17 Portrait of a Boy
49 Mrs. Joshua Montgomery Sears (Sarah Choate Sears)
39 Border Crossing (Cruzando el Rio Bravo)
7 Tankard
5 Table
8 The Crab
15 Acquamare Chaos
6 Cicada
9 Synchromy
8 Untitled
17 Victorian Bouquet
4 Half
14 Parlor Cabinet
26 Untitled [OConnor-Thaw 770
7 Sampler
31 Nighttime, Enigma and Nostalgia
24 Untitled Film Still (52)
14 Sketch in Iron
13 Ventriloquist
6 Beacon
16 1 Super Cry Baby
41 Curling;-a Scottish Game, at Central Park
49 Photographs by Diane Arbus in the MFAH Collection
17 Walking the Chalk
24 Red Hill and White Shell
37 Sunlight and Shadow, Shinnecock Hills
12 The Herd Boy
38 Grey Lines with Black, Blue and Yellow
15 Desert Fire 249
8 Cotopaxi
21 High Chest of Drawers
24 Figure without Brassiere
5 Flood
55 Jar with Frogs, Tadpoles, Hummingbirds, and Dragonflies
66 South Main Baptist Church, Childrens Sunday School, Houston, Texas
19 Sor Aqua (Venetian)
76 To Make a Blind Man Murder for the Things Hes Seen (Happiness Is Over-rated)
17 Arizona Landscape
30 Magnolias on Gold Velvet Cloth
7 Puritan
4 Vase
22 The Last of the Tribes
18 Black-on-Black Jar
9 Tea Table
13 Self-Portrait
15 Rose Art Memory
16 Untitled (216.4)
16 The Light Inside
44 Old Glory Goes Up on Mt. Suribachi, Iwo Jima
25 Portrait of Maggie Wilson
24 Portrait of John B. Gest
12 Girl Reading
27 Portrait of Florence Pierce
5 Chair
16 Rock Reef, Maine
13 Rhyton Vessel
37 Damascus Gate (Stretch Variation III)
51 Trolley, New Orleans, from the series The Americans
4 Leda
8 Painting
18 The Sneak Necklace
11 Indian Pass
19 Sea Lion Feast Bowl
6 Vessel
37 Mother and Child (The First Portrait)
11 Red Barge 1
17 The Call for Help
18 Trees, Long Island
11 Abstraction
13 Past Recovery
8 Untitled
20 Double Fibula Brooch
29 Untitled (1) and Untitled (2)
25 Cube Skull Teapot (Var26)
16 The Transgressor
5 Haiti
15 The Brown Angel
31 Jubilee: Ghana Harvest Festival
5 Tango
34 A Wooded Landscape in Three Panels
12 Tambour Desk
13 Cigar Humidor
16 Aiding a Comrade

510
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_canvas 0.008743912908652311
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description all_capitalized_token -3.511264374138596
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_form 4.933758774354509
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_play 1.348530941634246
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_carved 2.6772201318233257
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_a 21.85491279962845
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_generation 2.3294861581170823
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_slavers 0.767338778792375
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_Coles 0.4174783369643409
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description before_decimal_len_4 9.809638390830523
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_posture 0.668697933772864
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description num_len_4 9.809638390830523
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_placed 0.6727354594054539
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_events 1.7223384552869274
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_approach 0.7284340539173108
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_length_11 18.08223962549657
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_length_12 16.82938610373192
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_industrial 1.5013789727360434
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_view 8.269367270690422
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_natural 1.451449737637622
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_sculptures 0.6704928813453884
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_Columbian 0.668697933772864
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_Impressionist 0.004079292767155918
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_keep 1.197604118589388
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_length_8 0.560384177085055
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_length_1 0.915104336686339
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_frame 1.05179443609701
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description starts_with_char_d 17.271737007184427
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description starts_with_char_t 18.968442020469528
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description starts_with_char_n 17.426050633914954
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description starts_with_char_D 5.384995865208457
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description starts_with_char_A 6.327138914299343
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description starts_with_char_H 7.838110805018431
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description starts_with_char_S 8.69369798139595
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description starts_with_char_O 4.575987732097872
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_divided 0.6321246589171323
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_then 3.448167593089136
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_this 10.511017606902437
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description symbol_- 11.689031603061677
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_describe 3.203634588556424
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_floor 1.5943841954355762
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_Buffalo 0.668697933772864
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_Frank 0.05383658184777932
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_After 2.39539390973448
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_terrible 0.767338778792375
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_culture 1.7134485100878494
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_Allan -0.5855961903544545
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_scenes 1.29125266844313
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_with 9.10340953731731
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description alpha_id_artist 4.14711385585719
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_AMERICAN -0.8106729756987585
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson symbol_. -2.973049031369927
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_JOHN 1.3821962918735804
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_MILLER 0.3722919474537228
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_PEALE 0.4256073321142579
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_LOVE 0.4869188629999287
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_by 0.8512931852459108
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_MARK 0.40122297164050086
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson all_capitalized_token 17.60378375528055
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_SURLS 0.4085319070230574
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson starts_with_char_C 0.18128292372338853
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_HERTER 0.5191276173571983
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson starts_with_char_B 0.8819656810362774
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson starts_with_char_E -1.15198772083437
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson starts_with_char_D -1.4462905737216973
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_BESS 0.404842616370568
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson starts_with_char_J -0.4823998909731362
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson starts_with_char_M 0.4952184499845058
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson starts_with_char_F -2.236377578902464
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson starts_with_char_H 2.179882282643627
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson starts_with_char_R 5.661269350108304
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson starts_with_char_S 0.11619699487652377
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson starts_with_char_T 1.9925386194100658
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson starts_with_char_N 2.179456448191085
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson starts_with_char_O -0.9710700880781868
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson starts_with_char_P 2.8325544970626515
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_DUNCANSON 0.33897108278285093
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_GORKY 0.4202450178050281
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_STUDIOS 2.3933768641558597
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_MASSACHUSETTS 1.2813768855196688
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_CHARLES 0.9473408901490282
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_BONTECOU 0.3988685684441316
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_FRANZ 0.30305809815761353
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_HARRY 0.44568957060258746
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_DOROTHY 0.4860082799615783
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_BENTON 0.5568447337641359
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_DAVIS 0.4912307058035502
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_GEORGIA 0.3175117688789268
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_BERTOIA 0.44568957060258746
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_Kwakiutl 8.404871933934418
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_FREDERIC 1.0105535043779696
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_ALBERT 0.5447248641669321
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson capitalized_token 4.156111430867582
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_id_THOMAS 0.5568447337641359
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_length_8 7.698967027846687
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_length_7 4.274691575197243
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_length_6 2.855208891529052
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_length_5 4.612595357082763
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_length_4 3.155446271496066
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/nameOfThePerson alpha_length_1 -4.63812112299907
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfBirth alpha_id_born 13.669706340752825
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfBirth after_decimal_len_0 7.8429874188832045
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfBirth num_len_4 23.881432049783594
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfBirth symbol_. 2.6937671475799236
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfBirth symbol_- 37.055717893059395
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfBirth symbol_; 3.0814790797731395
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfBirth starts_with_char_e 3.907663155137869
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfBirth starts_with_char_c -1.6482691150278725
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfBirth starts_with_char_b 10.24835293793003
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfBirth starts_with_char_a -2.591614583511162
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfBirth starting_digit_2 -2.348207648446051
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfBirth starting_digit_1 12.299583546555393
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfBirth alpha_id_est 6.090014811291926
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfBirth unit_place_digit_6 0.5523356931348049
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfBirth unit_place_digit_5 3.943230077674643
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfBirth unit_place_digit_8 2.284154589151134
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfBirth unit_place_digit_7 -0.18507013436259082
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfBirth unit_place_digit_9 2.624751584003751
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfBirth alpha_id_active 4.188517117204587
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfBirth unit_place_digit_0 -0.07784947531752298
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfBirth unit_place_digit_1 0.18675573307901835
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfBirth unit_place_digit_2 -0.44811454566335696
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfBirth unit_place_digit_3 -2.648921596651344
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfBirth unit_place_digit_4 -1.1699309234111754
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfBirth before_decimal_len_4 23.881432049783594
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfBirth alpha_length_6 -14.472308597808649
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfBirth alpha_length_4 3.01767333126308
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfBirth alpha_length_3 -3.3398702584946705
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfBirth alpha_length_1 -12.711875245151422
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfBirth alpha_id_c 3.0454347500757466
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfDeath after_decimal_len_0 20.239069403977854
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfDeath symbol_) 1.4026206364212748
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfDeath num_len_5 0.04793781786129694
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfDeath symbol_( 1.4026206364212748
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfDeath num_len_4 23.796878230433702
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfDeath num_len_3 2.4449570827877998
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfDeath symbol_. -2.6720088269504876
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfDeath symbol_, -0.4448792191430183
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfDeath alpha_id_in 1.4026205548265784
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfDeath alpha_id_Mid 2.363155516433733
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfDeath starts_with_char_c 6.9476401399894145
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfDeath starts_with_char_i -5.308819047459351
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfDeath starts_with_char_t 2.0994670361297874
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfDeath starts_with_char_p -0.4713971340249142
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfDeath starts_with_char_v 1.4026315428833984
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfDeath starts_with_char_M 0.6629426026505473
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfDeath starting_digit_- 5.550437834478936
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfDeath alpha_id_c 3.181853083038063
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfDeath alpha_id_century 2.363155516433732
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfDeath starting_digit_2 -2.7764977778795044
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfDeath starting_digit_1 14.716109421435679
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfDeath alpha_id_printed 1.2214545418034377
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfDeath alpha_id_th 2.3631555164337326
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfDeath alpha_id_version 1.4026315433432561
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfDeath alpha_id_this 1.4026315433432552
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfDeath alpha_id_cast 1.4026315433432561
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfDeath capitalized_token 0.4655807408142503
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfDeath unit_place_digit_6 -0.8112076336415941
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfDeath unit_place_digit_5 3.214590692316388
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfDeath unit_place_digit_8 -0.8926972529839148
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfDeath unit_place_digit_7 -5.543433238738862
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfDeath unit_place_digit_9 -1.1328390194750204
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfDeath unit_place_digit_0 -1.63881179579593
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfDeath unit_place_digit_1 -2.3987177891980522
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfDeath unit_place_digit_2 -0.6756712145411555
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfDeath unit_place_digit_3 -1.0983691805737468
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfDeath unit_place_digit_4 -2.9587931867792525
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfDeath alpha_length_7 2.7236420409798763
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfDeath before_decimal_len_4 23.796878230433702
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfDeath before_decimal_len_5 0.04793781786129694
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfDeath alpha_length_4 -11.979111547391973
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfDeath alpha_length_3 -4.567215699707665
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfDeath alpha_length_2 1.8723082760758785
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfDeath alpha_length_1 -3.8995847604561407
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/dateOfDeath before_decimal_len_3 2.4449570827877998
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance symbol_. 2.5454809841990156
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance symbol_, 1.5729542047106375
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance alpha_id_Bend 0.3253241262314067
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance alpha_id_Fund 4.867449281327334
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance alpha_length_10 3.026259641455305
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance alpha_id_Painting 0.05416386320925425
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance alpha_id_Foundation 0.8395404211182292
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance alpha_id_The 6.90515649953975
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance alpha_id_Lead 0.054832313097581235
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance alpha_id_Archive 2.3006047486603216
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance alpha_id_Allan 1.96775558214907
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance capitalized_token -0.8048236656105641
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance alpha_id_Law 0.9755252454119803
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance alpha_id_Collection 3.4297020267241956
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance starts_with_char_b -0.14872528305853938
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance starts_with_char_a 0.8371606309225683
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance starts_with_char_h 2.2366624603314618
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance starts_with_char_f 3.4046493389374763
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance starts_with_char_t 3.5659176198081606
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance starts_with_char_o 3.0259565412804594
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance starts_with_char_C 3.223531607859345
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance starts_with_char_B 4.5413597418694
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance starts_with_char_D 1.2508638581076075
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance starts_with_char_A 3.241748186328251
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance starts_with_char_M 6.940995047268293
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance starts_with_char_G 4.830998786137176
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance starts_with_char_H -0.22735370516114498
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance starts_with_char_S -0.7828556399218597
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance starts_with_char_T 4.215097853966468
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance starts_with_char_P 3.65415598383861
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance alpha_id_with 5.293461025008463
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance alpha_id_provided 5.35697439113303
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance alpha_id_Gift 6.400058936227556
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance alpha_length_8 2.9316015352324234
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance alpha_length_9 2.3870265777775757
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance alpha_length_7 -1.5803556749383099
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance alpha_length_6 3.5573422371364676
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance alpha_length_5 2.066780159071432
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance alpha_length_4 4.59890539625169
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance alpha_length_2 4.025075490266209
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance alpha_id_in 0.763021884705399
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance alpha_id_and 2.4664168639810367
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance alpha_id_Museum 7.08746907879275
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance alpha_id_Isabel 2.0217895171000264
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance alpha_id_Energy 0.0569701159199773
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance alpha_id_Pratt 3.561058884346351
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance alpha_id_Bayou 0.3253241262314067
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance alpha_id_of 6.769606285825087
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance alpha_id_purchase 7.0874690792288915
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/provenance alpha_id_Hevrdejs 0.32268537057957897
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/extent after_decimal_len_0 -23.860438259168593
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/extent symbol_/ 7.414555834250948
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/extent symbol_) -2.055594010157242
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/extent symbol_( -2.055594010157242
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/extent symbol_; -1.5200392142433157
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/extent all_capitalized_token -9.237293078179404
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/extent unit_place_digit_6 -1.0717822086079698
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/extent unit_place_digit_5 -7.186325054040675
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/extent unit_place_digit_8 1.6987575490952445
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/extent unit_place_digit_7 4.223019398239907
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/extent unit_place_digit_9 -3.826947852235923
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/extent unit_place_digit_0 -9.34352095160459
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/extent unit_place_digit_1 0.7674511640677667
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/extent unit_place_digit_2 4.654850629971926
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/extent unit_place_digit_3 4.319164714762093
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/extent unit_place_digit_4 0.9169000090767102
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/extent before_decimal_len_1 11.832840095033193
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/extent before_decimal_len_2 21.769634571494848
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/extent before_decimal_len_3 -4.494311891679249
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/extent capitalized_token -11.55143982103371
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/extent num_len_3 -4.494311891679249
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/extent num_len_1 11.832840095033193
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/extent num_len_2 21.769634571494848
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/extent starts_with_char_i 25.524389991541266
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/extent alpha_id_Image 0.7904758936087917
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/extent starts_with_char_x 37.507259863725544
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/extent starts_with_char_C -8.286026654978897
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/extent starts_with_char_B -6.2135085983981
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/extent starts_with_char_L -2.7808756328311386
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/extent starts_with_char_S -5.206636238815317
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/extent starting_digit_8 12.233265085258003
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/extent starting_digit_7 8.64750617749454
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/extent starting_digit_6 1.3747704026316354
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/extent starting_digit_5 1.180230929365613
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/extent starting_digit_4 12.59298727466216
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/extent starting_digit_3 13.922425886805483
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/extent starting_digit_2 5.947079020571415
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/extent starting_digit_1 -31.358665391911707
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/extent starting_digit_9 0.23615047546639575
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/extent alpha_id_Dog 0.7904759192750266
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/extent alpha_id_Three 0.7904759005866908
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/extent alpha_id_Standing 0.7904759192750276
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/extent alpha_length_6 18.579843012911976
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/extent alpha_length_5 -18.091669041670364
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/extent alpha_length_1 11.805004286555997
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/extent alpha_id_C 0.43623103823369813
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/extent alpha_id_x 38.848228042441804
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/extent alpha_id_inches 39.519527913254414
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/extent alpha_id_Stone 0.790475246424765
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/extent alpha_id_Men 0.7904759192750276
http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/Document|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_id_mfah 10.164247271442534
http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/Document|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink after_decimal_len_0 0.6823821320308969
http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/Document|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink symbol_/ 10.161501896310552
http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/Document|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink symbol_. 4.190763434894895
http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/Document|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink symbol_- 9.261781030886336
http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/Document|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink symbol_: 8.335973189321491
http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/Document|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_id_variation 0.21705389694723512
http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/Document|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_id_red 0.2186635797163163
http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/Document|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_id_table 0.8746543436615111
http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/Document|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_id_village 0.2186635859192256
http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/Document|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink unit_place_digit_0 0.01486328048911491
http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/Document|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink unit_place_digit_1 -0.1502870817896817
http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/Document|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink before_decimal_len_3 1.7867364218041997
http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/Document|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_id_highlights 2.982900483341791
http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/Document|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_id_clips 0.21866358591928076
http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/Document|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_id_am 0.21873097411037296
http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/Document|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_id_detail 8.98204102669269
http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/Document|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_id_double 0.2186635859192256
http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/Document|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink num_len_3 1.7867364218041997
http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/Document|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_id_conoid 0.21866358591922697
http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/Document|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_id_www 10.164247271442534
http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/Document|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink starts_with_char_d 5.918599720656641
http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/Document|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink starts_with_char_c -1.1370316435256653
http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/Document|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink starts_with_char_b -3.0626198682894223
http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/Document|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink starts_with_char_a 5.003023798686156
http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/Document|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink starts_with_char_m 6.415345178220761
http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/Document|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink starts_with_char_j -1.9666376536647359
http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/Document|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink starts_with_char_h 7.462515444864124
http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/Document|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink starts_with_char_u -1.8846137460627121
http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/Document|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink starts_with_char_p 0.04864895383498269
http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/Document|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink starts_with_char_o 6.07311619473077
http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/Document|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink starts_with_char_w 6.422434462789966
http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/Document|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink starts_with_char_B -0.6586811856319793
http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/Document|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink starting_digit_- 1.31723206319594
http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/Document|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_id_http 10.164247271442534
http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/Document|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink starting_digit_2 -0.402467927350491
http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/Document|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink starting_digit_1 -0.6460586627915972
http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/Document|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_id_stringer 0.2186635864382508
http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/Document|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_id_gate 0.21866510232477926
http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/Document|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_length_8 0.4534530526949897
http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/Document|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_id_building 0.21873097411037296
http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/Document|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_length_6 8.082196512855106
http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/Document|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_length_5 -1.7202332599476802
http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/Document|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_length_4 3.965259640361446
http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/Document|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_length_3 3.9730937612592307
http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/Document|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_length_1 -4.525153643052448
http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/Document|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_id_untitled 1.31884326856561
http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/Document|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_id_mother -0.10797513925843492
http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/Document|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_id_art 10.136666781936563
http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/Document|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_id_org 10.164247271442534
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson alpha_id_born 2.9202526359319574
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson alpha_id_AMERICAN 1.3419461468315426
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson symbol_, 4.0077083488942575
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson alpha_id_Switzerland 0.32447376028305785
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson symbol_; 0.581667969597617
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson alpha_id_Russia 0.32447235937909896
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson alpha_id_England 0.3244723594015983
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson alpha_id_Germany 0.32447235942246083
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson alpha_id_Scotland 0.6489447192451179
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson starts_with_char_b 2.396168327437864
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson alpha_id_Italy 0.32447235937865737
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson all_capitalized_token 1.273464565779418
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson starts_with_char_E 0.32445406980404395
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson starts_with_char_A 13.010030876232374
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson starts_with_char_G -0.02043755043205258
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson starts_with_char_F 0.059496437668882046
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson starts_with_char_I 3.607988132711484
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson starts_with_char_R 2.370418734883452
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson starts_with_char_S -1.8763326041555035
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson starts_with_char_P 0.8062073976001609
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson alpha_id_Armenia 0.32447235941318125
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson alpha_id_Island 3.3022674948966344
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson alpha_id_American 14.076464173030454
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson alpha_id_Rhode 3.3337333381373218
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson alpha_id_Providence 3.3337333381373218
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson alpha_id_French 0.3244723601358829
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson capitalized_token 6.150131067674207
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson alpha_length_8 7.688429828487268
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson alpha_id_Poland 0.3244723594087853
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson alpha_length_10 0.3891327940792057
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson alpha_length_11 -1.660665480198247
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson alpha_length_7 -0.6938168253715171
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson alpha_length_6 1.0998220346300536
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson alpha_length_5 1.2147486861345367
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/Person|http://rdvocab.info/ElementsGr2/countryAssociatedWithThePerson alpha_length_4 -0.6858513897453102
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_id_mfah 6.927301440470502
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink symbol__ 7.959063654543709
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink symbol_. 5.647684081423858
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink symbol_: 6.927297823990568
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink unit_place_digit_6 4.917852850625877
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink unit_place_digit_5 4.616256919635353
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink unit_place_digit_8 4.934619465817096
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink unit_place_digit_7 5.0938007389076905
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink unit_place_digit_4 4.775438192676467
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_id_jpg 7.959063654543709
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_id_bccef 0.15918127309087424
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_id_bd 0.3183625461817485
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_id_cc 0.636725092363497
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink starts_with_char_e 6.029353543879512
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink starts_with_char_d 6.131376814939103
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink starts_with_char_c 4.807119290530159
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink starts_with_char_m 5.358364953266455
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink starts_with_char_j 6.954336334797983
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink starts_with_char_s 5.871767732365237
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink starts_with_char_o 5.704189153041874
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink starts_with_char_w 5.634674391302322
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink starting_digit_7 4.775438192725155
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink starting_digit_6 5.252982011998848
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink starting_digit_5 4.616256919635353
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink starting_digit_2 3.2083527972046473
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_id_cea 0.15918127309087424
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_id_a 4.291032537526732
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_id_site 7.959063654543709
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_id_f 5.252982011998848
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_id_c 3.9795318272718543
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_id_d 3.8203505541809806
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink after_decimal_len_0 5.730619534606265
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink before_decimal_len_5 2.3877190963630963
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink before_decimal_len_7 1.432631457817868
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink before_decimal_len_1 7.506637432628494
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink before_decimal_len_3 3.8567891193671633
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_id_ddade 0.15918127309087424
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink num_len_4 4.297894294005177
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink num_len_3 3.8567891193671633
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink num_len_1 7.506637432628494
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink num_len_2 7.101694909278962
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_id_www 6.927301440470502
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_id_http 6.927301440470502
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_length_5 4.595628662547538
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_length_4 4.581955443847735
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_length_3 3.905363546650429
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_length_2 4.453383688329389
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_length_1 7.675984290960314
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_id_fb 0.636725092363497
http://www.europeana.eu/schemas/edm/WebResource|http://isi.edu/integration/karma/dev#classLink alpha_id_cache 7.959063654543709
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/medium alpha_id_canvas 3.2926951688253743
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/medium alpha_id_Wood 0.4058564396541818
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/medium symbol_, 1.3222132942772908
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/medium num_len_2 0.7954171071608778
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/medium symbol_; 1.1064300721754872
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/medium alpha_id_print 2.354346184079119
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/medium starts_with_char_c 4.890733437681638
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/medium alpha_id_individually 0.8431368730869868
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/medium starts_with_char_m 2.347520044468003
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/medium starts_with_char_g 2.815668615806177
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/medium starts_with_char_f 2.0117959141909507
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/medium starts_with_char_s 4.302549023698802
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/medium starts_with_char_p 5.931304889436608
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/medium starts_with_char_o 6.461837081105913
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/medium starts_with_char_v -0.031219743051558918
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/medium starts_with_char_B -0.6731439172347037
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/medium starts_with_char_G 1.9480271518323922
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/medium alpha_id_eastern 0.17329336996584077
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/medium starts_with_char_O 3.6995669963960607
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/medium starts_with_char_P -0.9031601342873411
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/medium alpha_id_decoration 1.1070087560160387
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/medium alpha_id_thermo 0.2700382514904317
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/medium alpha_id_brass 1.1070087560160387
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/medium alpha_length_8 0.2334017249334653
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/medium alpha_length_9 1.8416921100451993
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/medium alpha_length_10 1.4781959300668872
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/medium alpha_length_11 1.9141722329223643
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/medium alpha_length_12 1.8853146178027689
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/medium alpha_length_7 4.565920321640611
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/medium alpha_length_6 5.049554884376559
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/medium alpha_length_5 5.161423907155389
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/medium alpha_length_4 1.8617846771066509
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/medium alpha_length_3 6.217617664518523
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/medium alpha_length_2 2.812419318914816
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/medium alpha_id_silver 2.233543274552007
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/medium alpha_id_three 0.17327614611559422
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/medium alpha_id_steel 0.8199405857767044
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/medium alpha_id_Oil 3.473934916746461
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/medium alpha_id_and 4.126077994216471
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/medium alpha_id_White 0.01704056626517364
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/medium alpha_id_Gouache 0.17327632410993515
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/medium alpha_id_paper 0.3482264617635589
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/medium alpha_id_video 0.7954171071608778
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/medium alpha_id_white 0.17329336996584077
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/medium alpha_id_yellow 0.17329336996584077
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/medium alpha_id_painted 1.2803021259818796
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/medium alpha_id_linen 1.2804623026519772
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/medium alpha_id_of 0.150560402164902
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/medium capitalized_token 8.360116344061552
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/terms/medium alpha_id_horsehair 1.1070087560160387
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_id_Damascus 0.3000842104898978
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_id_Inside 0.2910074049957817
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title after_decimal_len_0 1.1311164173648423
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title symbol_) 2.0088938955370232
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_id_Acquamare 0.2932344830108242
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title symbol_. 0.8683934101776349
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_id_Thaw 0.5464983383474766
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_id_without 0.2982990607381124
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title starts_with_char_a 0.7927663204732864
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title starts_with_char_i 1.1232391651595846
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title starts_with_char_t 1.1157165947518353
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_id_Maine 0.29098340555562713
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title all_capitalized_token 1.8135435250053376
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title starts_with_char_C 3.0487047784330414
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title starts_with_char_B 2.313005892218832
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title starts_with_char_D 2.5322971217804477
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title starts_with_char_A 3.843545312450031
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title starts_with_char_K 0.525955739854134
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title starts_with_char_J 1.6994267813040118
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title starts_with_char_L 1.1924204034647776
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title starts_with_char_G 1.4619166004443485
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title starts_with_char_S 3.0030467514122643
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title starts_with_char_T 2.6321763800266313
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title starts_with_char_V 0.8536013984913766
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_id_Parlor 0.2913017177866863
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_id_Drawers 0.291335117904519
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_id_El 0.2910284952553052
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_id_Suribachi 0.2986562144675549
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_id_Untitled 0.8550291564872494
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_id_Crab 0.290850652433046
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_id_Goes 0.2986562144675549
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_length_8 3.928137934187086
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_id_Table 0.5186192490327478
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_length_6 5.552635495688049
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_length_5 4.715410532944396
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_length_4 6.66544575342095
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_length_3 4.16118602111554
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_length_2 3.9964571661835686
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title before_decimal_len_3 0.8378803705073856
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_id_for 0.29144318457048557
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_id_Fire 0.291382032170255
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_id_Butterfly 0.2895747803295222
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_id_Photographs 0.5363309550330162
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_id_Cotopaxi 0.2912550398442305
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_id_Reef 0.29098340555562713
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_id_Iron 0.29621752417739167
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_id_Brassiere 0.2982990607381124
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_id_on 1.1191311131673096
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title capitalized_token 13.769434685599691
http://www.americanartcollaborative.org/ontology/CulturalHeritageObject|http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title alpha_id_Sarah 0.2906589659675293
